but in the matter of the withdrawal of birds, it is stated that even night-owls go into retreat for a few days. it is said that this kind does not exist in the island of crete and even that if one is imported there it dies off. for this also is a remarkable point of variety established by nature: to various places she denies various species of animals as well as of crops and shrubs. for those animals not to be born there is in the ordinary course of things, but their dying off when imported there is remarkable. what is the factor adverse to the health of a single genus that is involved, or what is the jealousy of nature that is indicated? or what frontiers are prescribed for birds? rhodes does not possess the eagle; italy north of the po gives the name of como to a lake near the alps graced with a wooded tract to which storks do not come; and similarly jays and jackdaws - a bird whose unique fondness for stealing especially silver and gold is remarkable - though swarming in enormous numbers in the adjacent region of the insubrians, do not come within eight miles of lake como. it is said that mars's woodpecker is not found in the district of taranto. the kinds of pie called chequered pies and distinguished for their long tail, though hitherto rare, have lately begun to be seen between the apennines and rome; this bird has the peculiarity of moulting its feathers yearly at the time when the turnip is sown. partridges do not fly across the frontier of boeotia into attica; nor does any bird fly across the temple dedicated to achilles on the island of the black sea where he is buried. in the district of fidenae near rome storks do not hatch chicks or make nests. but a quantity of pigeons every year fly from the sea to the district of volaterrae. neither flies nor dogs enter the temple of hercules in the forum boarium at rome. there are many similar facts besides, which i am continually careful to omit in my account of the several kinds, to avoid being wearisome - for example theophrastus states that even pigeons and peacocks and ravens are not indigenous in asia. nor croaking frogs in cyrenaica. 