some birds mate in any season, for instance the domestic fowl, and lay, except in the two midwinter months. of these kinds the young hens lay more eggs than the old, but smaller ones, and in the same brood those laid first and last are the smallest. but they are so fertile that some even lay eggs sixty times, some lay daily, some twice daily, some so much that they die of exhaustion. adria birds are most highly spoken of. pigeons lay ten times a year, some even eleven times, while in egypt they even lay in a midwinter month. swallows and blackbirds and woodpigeons and turtledoves lay twice a year, all other birds as a rule only once. thrushes build their nests of mud in an almost continuous mass on the tops of trees, and breed in retirement. the eggs grow to full size in the uterus in ten days from pairing, but in the case of the domestic fowl and the pigeon, if the hen is disturbed by having a feather torn out or by some similar damage, it takes longer. in all eggs the middle of the yolk contains a small drop of a sort of blood, which people think is the heart of birds, supposing that the heart is the first part that is produced in every body: in an egg undoubtedly this drop beats and throbs. the animal itself is formed out of the white of the egg, but its food is in the yolk. in all cases at the beginning the head is larger than the whole body, and the eyes, which are pressed together, are larger than the head. as the chick grows in size the white turns to the middle and the yolk spreads round it. if on the twentieth day the egg be moved, the voice of the chick already alive is heard inside the shell. at the same time it begins to grow feathers, its posture being such that it has its head above its right foot but its right wing above its head. the yolk gradually disappears. all birds are born feet first, the opposite way to the remaining animals. some domestic hens lay all their eggs in pairs, and according to cornelius celsus occasionally hatch twin chicks, one larger than the other; though some assert that twin chicks are never hatched out. they lay down a rule that the hen should not be required to sit on more than 25 eggs at a time. hens begin to lay at midwinter, and breed best before the spring equinox: chickens born after midsummer do not attain the proper size, and the later they are hatched the more they fall short of it. 