the cat and the mongoose resemble dogs in other respects, but their length of life is ten years. rabbits breed in every month of the year, and superfetate, as do hares; after giving birth they pair again at once. they conceive although still suckling their previous litter, but the young are blind. elephants, as we have said, bear one young one at a time, of the size of a three months old calf. camels carry their young twelve months; they begin breeding at the age of three, in the spring, and mate again a year after giving birth. mares on the other hand are believed not to be profitably sired till three years old, and not before a year after their last foaling; when they are unwilling, compulsion is used. it is believed that she-asses conceive quite easily even a week after delivery. it is said that mares' manes ought to be clipped to make them submit to allow coupling with asses, as having long manes makes them proud and high-spirited. mares are the only animals that after coupling run in a northerly or southerly direction according as they have conceived a male or a female foal. immediately afterwards they change the colour of their coat for a deeper red or a darker hue of whatever their colour is: this marks their ceasing to be able to couple, even if willing to do so. some are not hindered from work by foaling, and are in foal without its being known. we find it on record that a mare in foal belonging to a thessalian named echecratides won a race at olympia. it is stated by exceptionally careful authorities that horses, dogs and swine like mating in the morning, but that the females make approaches in the afternoon; that mares that have been broken are in heat 60 days sooner than those running with the herd; that swine only foam at the mouth when mating; that when a boar-pig has heard a sow in heat grunting it refuses food to the point of losing flesh entirely unless it ]s admitted to her, while sows get so fierce that they will gore a human being, especially one wearing white clothes. this madness can be reduced by sprinkling the organs with vinegar. it is believed that desire for mating is also stimulated by articles of diet, for instance rocket in the case of a man and onions in the case of cattle. it is a remarkable fact that wild species when domesticated refuse to breed, for instance wild geese, and wild boars and stags do so reluctantly and only if they have been reared from infancy. female animals refuse intercourse when pregnant, except the mare and the sow; but only the common rabbit and the hairy-footed rabbit allow superfetation. 