in some species the wings are protected by an outer covering of shell, for instance beetles; in these species the wing is thinner and more fragile. they are not provided with a sting, but in one large variety of them there are very long horns, with two prongs and toothed claws at the point which close together at pleasure for a bite; they are actually hung round children's necks as amulets; nigidius calls these lucanian oxen. another kind of them again is one that rolls up backwards with its feet vast balls of mud and nests its brood of little grubs in these against the rigour of winter. others flutter about with a loud murmur or a shrill noise, and others giving out a buzz bore numerous holes in hearths and walls in the night. glow worms shine like fires at night time owing to the colour of their sides and loins, now giving a flash of light by opening their wings and now darkened by closing them; they are not much seen before the crops are ripe or after they have been cut. the cockroaches' life on the contrary is a nurseling of the shadows, and they fly the light, being mostly produced in the damp warmth of bathhouses. the reddish and very large beetles of the same kind dig dry earth and mould combs that resemble a small porous sponge and contain poisoned honey. there is a small place near olynthus in thrace that is fatal to this animal, and is consequently called beetle-bane. the wings of all insects have no cleft. none has a tail except the scorpion. this is the only insect that has arms, and also a spike in the tail; some of the rest have a sting, for instance the gadfly (or if you like, 'breeze'), and also the gnat and some flies, but with all of these it is in the mouth and settles as a tongue. with some these stings are blunt, and do not serve for pricking but for suction - for instance with a sort of fly, in which the tongue is evidently a tube; and this sort of insect have no teeth. others, for instance butterflies, have useless little horns projecting in front of their eyes. some insects, for instance the centipede, have no wings. 