the most devoted students of nature report that trees, indeed all the products of the earth and even grasses, are of both sexes, a fact which it may at this place be sufficient to state in general terms although in no trees is it more manifest than in the palm. a male palm forms a blossom on the shoot, whereas a female merely forms a bud like an ear of corn, without going on to blossom. in both male and female, however, the flesh of the fruit forms first and the woody core afterwards; this is the seed of the tree - which is proved by the fact that small fruits without any core are found on the same shoot. the seed is oblong in shape and not rounded like an olive-stone, and also it is split at the back by a bulging cleft, and in most cases shaped like a navel at the middle of the bulge: it is from here that the root first spreads out. in planting the seed is laid front-side downward, and a pair of seeds are placed close together with two more above them, since a single seed produces a weak plant, but the four shoots unite in one strong growth. this woody core is divided from the fleshy parts by a number of white coats, others clinging closely to its body; and it is loose and separate, only attached by a thread at its top end. the flesh takes a year to ripen, though in some places, for instance, cyprus, it has a pleasant sweet flavour even though it does not reach maturity. in cyprus the leaf is broader and the fruit rounder than it is elsewhere, though people there do not eat the body of the fruit, but spit it out after merely squeezing out the juice. also in arabia the palm is said to have a sickly sweet taste, although juba states that he prefers the palm that grows in the territory of the tent-dweller arabs, which they call the dablas, to all other kinds for flavour. for the rest, it is stated that in a palm-grove of natural growth the female trees do not produce if there are no males, and that each male tree is surrounded by several females with more attractive foliage that bend and bow towards him; while the male bristling with leaves erected impregnates the rest of them by his exhalation and by the mere sight of him, and also by his pollen; and that when the male tree is felled the females afterwards in their widowhood become barren. and so fully is their sexual union understood that mankind has actually devised a method of impregnating them by means of the flower and down collected from the males, and indeed sometimes by merely sprinkling their pollen on the females. 