in the southern part of the world the kind called in greek the wild-boar date is held in the highest repute, and next to it ranks the maldive nut date. the latter is a short, rounded fruit of a white colour, more like a grape than a phoenician date, for which reason it has also received the name of pearl-date. it is said that only one palm-tree of this kind exists, at chora, and the same is the case with the wild-boar date; and a remarkable story has come to us about this tree, to the effect that it dies off and then comes to life again of itself - a peculiarity which it shares with the phoenix, which is thought to have taken its name from the suggestion of this palm-tree: the tree was bearing fruit at the time when this book was published. the actual fruit is large, hard and prickly, and differs from all the other kinds by having a gamey sort of smell that is most noticed in wild boars, which is the reason for its name. the sandalis date, so called from its resemblance to a sandal, ranks fourth; of this kind again there are said to be at the most five trees in existence, on the border of ethiopia, and they are as remarkable for the sweetness of their fruit as they are for their rarity. next to these the most famous are the caryotae, which supply a great deal of food but also of juice, and from which the principal wines of the east are made; these strongly affect the head, to which the date owes its name. but not only are these trees abundant and bear largely in judea, but also the most famous are found there, and not in the whole of that country but specially in jericho, although those growing in the valleys of archelais and phasaelis and livias in the same country are also highly spoken of. their outstanding property is the unctuous juice which they exude and an extremely sweet sort of wine-flavour like that of honey. the nicholas date belonging to this class is not so juicy but exceptionally large in size, four put end to end making a length of eighteen inches. the date that comes next in sweetness is less attractive to look at, but in flavour is the sister of the caryotae and consequently is called in greek the sister-dates the third class among these, the pateta, has too copious a supply of juice, and the excess of liquor of the fruit itself bursts open even while on the parent tree, looking like dates that have been trodden on. 