in some of the provinces the vine stands by itself without any prop, gathering its limbs together inward and providing nutriment for thick growth by means of their shortness. in other places this is prohibited by the wind, for instance, in africa and in parts of the province of narbonne, where vines are prevented from growing beyond their pruned stumps and always resemble plants that are hoed, straying across the fields like herbaceous plants and drinking up the juice of the soil with their grapes as they go; and consequently in the interior of africa the clusters exceed the body of an infant child in size. in no other country are the vines harsher, but nowhere else have the grapes a more agreeable firmness, which is very possibly the source of the name 'hard grape.' as to varieties in respect of size, colour and flavours of the berry they are innumerable and they are actually multiplied by the varieties of wine: in one district they have a brilliant purple colour, in another a rosy glow or a glossy green tint; for grapes that are merely white and black are the common sorts. but the large-cluster grapes swell out like a breast and the finger-grapes have an exceptionally long berry. also such is the sportiveness of nature that very large grapes have small grapes clinging to them as companions which rival them in sweetness: these are called in greek 'small-berry' vines. some grapes will last all through the winter if the clusters are hung by a string from the ceiling, and others will keep merely in their own natural vigour by being stood in earthenware jars with casks put over them, and packed round with fermenting grape-skins; others can be given a flavour by smoke, which also adds flavour to wines, and the authority of tiberius caesar has caused particular glory in regard to the efficiency of smoke in this respect to attach to the forges of africa; before his time priority at the table belonged to the ilaetic grapes from the territory of verona. moreover, raisins are called 'passi' from having 'endured' the sun. grapes are also preserved in must, and so made drunk with their own wine, and some are made sweeter by being placed in must that has been boiled down; but others remain on the parent vine to await the coming of a new generation, acquiring a glassy transparency, and the astringency of pitch poured on the footstalk gives them the same durable hardness that it gives to wine in casks or jars. a vine has now been discovered that of itself produces a flavour of pitch in the wine: this vine gives celebrity to the territory of vienne by the varieties of monte taburno and of the sotani and helvii; it has become famous only recently and was unknown in the period of the poet virgil, who died 90 years ago. add that the vine has been introduced into the camp, and in the hand of the centurions is the mainstay of supreme authority and command and with its rich reward it lures on the laggard ranks to the tardy eaglest and even in offences it confers honour on punishment itself. moreover it was vineyards that suggested a method for siege-trains. as for medicines, grapes hold such an important place among them that they act as remedies in themselves, merely by supplying wine. 