the kinds of vine mentioned so far are grown everywhere, but those remaining belong to particular districts and places, or are crosses produced by grafting one of these on another: thus among the vines of etruria that of todi is a special variety, and also they have special names, a vine at florentia being called sopina and some at arezzo 'mole-vine' and 'seasonal vine' and 'crossed vine.' the mole-vine has black grapes and makes a white must; the seasonal vine is a deceptive plant, giving a more admirable wine the larger crop of grapes it bears, and, remarkable to say, coming to the end of its fertility and its good quality at the same time; the crossed vine has black grapes and makes a wine that does not keep at all long, but its grape keeps a very long time, and it is gathered a fortnight later than any other variety, bearing a large crop of grapes but only good for eating. the leaves of this vine, like those of the wild vine, turn a blood-red colour before they fall off; this also happens with some other vines, and is a sign of extremely inferior quality. the itriola is peculiar to unibria and to the districts of bevagna and ancona, and the 'dwarf-vine' to that of amiternum. the same districts have the bananica, an unreliable vine, though people become fond of it. the people of pompei give the name of their township to a grape, although it grows in greater quantity at clusium; the people of tivoli also name a grape after their township, although they have lately discovered the 'olive-grape', so called from its resemblance to an olive: this is the latest grape introduced hitherto. the vinaciola grape is only known to the sabines and the calventina to the people of mount gaurus. vines transplanted from the falernian territory are, i am aware, called 'falernian,' but they very quickly degenerate everywhere. some people also have made out a sorrento variety, with a very sweet grape. the 'smoke-grape,' the 'mouthful' and the tharrupia, which grow on the hills of thurii, are not picked before there has been a frost. pisa rejoices in the vine of paros, and modena in the vine of perugia, which has a black grape and makes a wine that within four years turns white. it is a remarkable fact that at modena there is a grape that turns round with the sun and is consequently called in greek the 'revolving grape'; and that in italy a grape from gaul is popular, but across the alps that of picenum. virgil mentions a thasian vine, a maraeotid and a lagean, and a number of other foreign kinds that are not found in italy. 