that of mount ida is red, and is the size of an olive, only rounder in shape; it has the taste of a medlar. the local name of this tree is the alexandrian fig; the trunk is eighteen inches thick and it spreads out in branches; it has a tough pliant wood, containing no juice, a green bark and a leaf like that of a lime but soft to the feel. onesicritus reports that the figs in hyrcania are much sweeter than ours and the trees more prolific, a single tree bearing 270 pecks of fruit. figs have been introduced among us from other countries, for instance, chalcis and chios - of the latter there are several varieties, inasmuch as lydian figs, which are purple, and breast-shaped figs have a resemblance to the chian; also the 'pretty-sparrow' figs, which are superior in the flavour of their flesh and are the coolest of all figs. for in regard to the african fig, as many people prefer it to the whole of the other kinds, there is a great question, inasmuch as this kind has only quite recently crossed over into africa. also among black figs the alexandrian is named from its country of origin - it has a cleft of a whitish colour, and it is called the luxury fig; among figs that ripen early those of rhodes and of tivoli are also black. early figs also have the names of the persons who introduced them - livia, pompey: the latter is the best for a fig to be dried in the sun for use throughout the year, together with the marsh fig and the fig with marks all over it shaped like a reed leaf. there are also the herculanean fig, the white-wax fig, and the white plough fig, with a very small stalk, a very flat-shaped kind. but the earliest fig is the purple fig, which has a very long stalk; it is accompanied by the worst of the very small kinds, called the people's fig. on the other hand the kind that ripens latest, just before winter, is the swallow fig. there are moreover figs that bear both late and early, yielding two crops, one white and one black, ripening with the harvest and with the vintage. there is also a late fig named from the hardness of its skin; some of the chalcidic varieties of this kind bear three times a year. the extremely sweet fig called the ona grows only at taranto. cato makes the following remark about figs: 'plant the marisca fig in a chalky or open place, but the african, herculanean and saguntine kinds, the winter fig and the black long-stalked telanian in a richer soil or in one well manured.' since his day so many names and varieties have arisen that a consideration of this alone is enough to show how our way of life has been transformed. some provinces also have winter figs, for instance moesia, but these are a product of art and not of nature. there is a small kind of fig-tree which is banked up with manure at the end of autumn and the figs on it are overtaken by winter while still unripe; and when milder weather comes the figs, together with the tree, are dug up again and restored to light; and just as if born again they greedily imbibe the warmth of the new sun, a different one from the sun through which they lived before, and begin to ripen along with the blossom of the coming crop, maturing in a year that does not belong to them; the region is an extremely cold one. 