oil is also made from the citrus and the cypress, from walnuts - this is called caryinum, from apples and from the cedar called pisselaeon; also from grain of cnidus by cleaning and pounding the seed, and likewise from mastich. as for the method of making cypros-oil and also oil from an egyptian berry for the purpose of scents, we have spoken of it already. the indians are said to make oils from chestnuts and gingelly and rice, and the fish-eater tribes from fish. scarcity sometimes compels people to make oil for lamps even out of the berries of the plane-tree by steeping them in water and salt. there is also an oil made from the wild vine - we have spoken about the plant itself while dealing with perfumes. for gleucinum must is boiled in oil with a slow heat, but other makers do not use fire but leave the jar packed round with grape-skins for three weeks, stirring up the mixture twice a day, and the must becomes absorbed by the oil. some people mix in not only marjoram but also more expensive scents, just as the oil used in the gymnastic schools is also perfumed with scents, though of a very poor quality. oil is also made from aspalathus, reed, balsam, iris, cardamomum, melilot, gallic nard, all-heal, marjoram, helenium, and cinnamomum root, by steeping all these plants in oil and then pressing out the juices. similarly also rose-oil is made from roses, and rush-oil, which is very similar to oil of roses, from the sweet rush, and likewise oils are extracted from henbane and from lupins and narcissus. a very large amount is obtained in egypt from radish seed or from the blade of the grass called chortinon, and likewise from gingelly and from the nettle called cnidinum. in other places also an oil is made from lilies, which is left in the open air to steep in the sunlight and moonlight and frost. on the border of cappadocia and galatia they make from native herbs an oil called selgitic oil, of considerable value for the tendons; and the same oil is made in italy by the people of gubbio. from pitch is made an oil called pitch-oil; while the pitch is kept on the boil, fleeces are stretched above the steam rising from it and then wrung out. the most approved kind comes from the bruttian land; the pitch there is very rich and full of resin. 