at that time there was no artificial oil, and that i take to be the reason why cato says nothing about it. at the present time there are several varieties of it; and we will treat first of those kinds which are produced from trees, and among them before all from the wild olive. it is a thin oil, and has a much more bitter flavour than the oil obtained from the cultivated olive, and it is only useful for medicines. very closely resembling this oil is the oil obtained from the ground-olive, a rock shrub not more than three inches high, with leaves and fruit like those of the wild olive. the next class of oil is that obtained from the cici, a tree growing in great abundance in egypt - others call it the croton, others sibi, others wild sesamum - and there, as well as not long ago in spain also, it grows wild, shooting up as high as an olive-tree, with a stalk like that of the fennel, the leaf of a vine, and a seed-pod like a slender grape of a pale colour: our countrymen call it the tick, from the resemblance of the seed-pod to that insect. it is boiled in water and the oil floating on the surface is skimmed off. but in egypt, where it abounds, fire and water are not employed, but salt is sprinkled on the pod and the oil is pressed out; for food it is disgusting, and it is of thin quality for burning in lamps. amygdalinum, which some people call neopum, is pressed out of bitter almonds, dried and pounded into a cake that is sprinkled with water and then pounded again. an oil is also made from the bay-tree with an admixture of the oil of over-ripe olives; some people merely press the oil out of the berries, others use only the leaves, and some the leaf and the outer skin of the berries, and also add styrax gum and other scents. the best kind of bay-tree for this is the broad-leaved wild laurel with black berries. a similar oil also comes from the black myrtle, and the broad-leaved variety of this is the best. the berries are sprinkled with hot water and pounded, and then boiled down. other people boil down the softest of the leaves in oil and press out the liquid, and others steep them in oil and allow them to mature in the sun before putting them in the press. the same method is also used in the ease of the cultivated myrtle, but the wild variety with a smaller pod is preferred, the kind which certain people call oxymyrsine, others ground-myrsine, and some aeorum because of its resemblance to that plant, as it grows low and bushy. 