an opening is made in a pitch-tree on the side towards the sun, not by means of an incision but by a wound made by removing the bark, making an aperture at most two feet long, so as to be at least eighteen inches from the ground. also the body of the tree itself is not spared, as in other cases, because the chips of wood are valuable; but the chips from nearest the surface are most esteemed, those from deeper in giving the resin a bitter flavour. afterwards all the moisture from the whole tree flows together into the wound; and so also in the case of the torch-tree. when the liquid stops flowing, an opening is made in a similar manner out of another part of the tree and then another. afterwards the whole tree is felled and the pith of the timber is burnt. in the same way in syria also they strip the bark off the turpentine-tree, there indeed stripping it from the branches and roots as well, although the resin from these parts is not valued highly. in macedonia they burn the whole of the male larch but only the roots of the female tree. theopompus wrote that in the territory of the apolloniates a mineral pitch is found that is not inferior to that of macedonia. the best pitch is everywhere obtained from trees growing in sunny places with a north-east aspect, whereas that from shady places has a rougher appearance, and presents an offensive odour; and pitch in a cold winter is inferior in quality and less plentiful in quantity, and of a bad colour. some people think that the liquid obtained in mountain regions is superior in quantity and colour and sweeter, and also has a more agreeable smell, so long as it remains in the state of resin, but that when boiled down it yields less pitch, because it goes off into a watery residue, and that the trees themselves are thinner than those in the plains, but that both the one and the other kinds are less productive in dry weather. some trees yield a liberal supply in the year after they are cut, whereas others do so a year later and some two years later. the wound fills up with resin, not with bark or by a scab, as in this tree an incision in the bark does not join up. 