the most close-grained of all timber and consequently the heaviest is judged to be ebony and box, both trees of a slender make. neither will float in water, nor will the cork-tree if its bark be removed, nor the larch. of the remainder the most close-grained is the one called at rome the lotus, and next the hard oak when the white sap-wood has been removed. the hard oak also has wood of a dark colour, and still darker is that of the cytisus, which appears to come very near to ebony, although people are to be found who assert that the turpentine-trees of syria are darker. indeed there is a celebrated artificer named thericles who used to turn goblets of turpentine-tree wood, which is a highly valued material; it is the only wood that needs to be oiled, and is improved by oil. its colour can be wonderfully counterfeited by staining walnut and wild pear wood and boiling them in a chemical preparation. all the trees that we have mentioned have hard close-grained wood. next after them comes the cornel, though its wood cannot be given a shiny polish became of its poor surface; but cornel wood is hardly useful for anything else except the spokes of wheels or in case something has to be wedged in wood or fixed with bolts made of it, which are as hard as iron. there are also the holm-oak, the wild and cultivated olive, the chestnut, the hornbeam and the poplar. the last is also mottled like the maple - if only any timber could be any good when the branches of the tree are frequently lopped: this amounts to gelding the tree, and takes away all its strength. for the rest, most of these trees, but especially the hard oak, are so hard that it is not possible to bore a hole in the wood until it has been soaked in water, and even then when a nail has been driven right into it it cannot be pulled out. on the other hand cedar gives no hold to a nail. the softest of all woods is lime, and it is also apparently the hottest as well: it is adduced in proof of this that it turns the edge of adzes quicker than any other wood. other hot woods are mulberry, laurel, ivy and all those used for making matches. 