it is believed that ebony lasts an extremely long time, and also cypress and cedar, a clear verdict about all timbers being given in the temple of diana at ephesus, inasmuch as though the whole of asia was building it it took 120 years to complete. it is agreed that its roof is made of beams of cedar, but as to the actual statue of the goddess there is some dispute, all the other writers saying that it is made of ebony, but one of the people who have most recently seen it and written about it, mucianus, who was three times consul, states that it is made of the wood of the vine, and has never been altered although the temple has been restored seven times; and that this material was chosen by endoeus - mucianus actually specifies the name of the artist, which for my part i think surprising, as he assigns to the statue an antiquity that makes it older than not only father liber but minerva also. he adds that nard is poured into it through a number of apertures so that the chemical properties of the liquid may nourish the wood and keep the joins together - as to these indeed i am rather surprised that there should be any - and that the folding doors are made of cypress wood, and the whole of the timber looks like new wood after having lasted nearly 400 years. it is also worth noting that the doors were kept for four years in a frame of glue. cypress was chosen for them because it is the one kind of wood which beyond all others retains its polish in the best condition for all time. has not the statue of vejovis in the citadel, made of cypress wood, lasted since its dedication in the year 561 [193 bc] after the foundation of rome? noteworthy also is the temple of apollo at utica, where beams of numidian cedar have lasted for 1178 years just as they were when they were put in position at the original foundation of that city; and the temple of diana at saguntum in spain, the statue of the goddess, according to the authority of bocchus, having been brought there from zacynthus with the founders of the city 200 years before the fall of troy; it is kept inside the town itself - hannibal from motives of religion spared it - and its beams, made of juniper, are still in existence even now. memorable above all is the temple of the same goddess at aulis, built some centuries before the trojan war; all knowledge of what kind of timber it was built of has entirely disappeared. broadly speaking it can at all events be said that those woods have the most outstanding durability which have the most agreeable scent. next in esteem after the timbers mentioned stands that of the mulberry, which even darkens with age. at the same time also some woods last longer when employed in certain ways than they do otherwise: elm lasts best exposed to the air, hard oak when used under ground, and oak when submerged under water - oak when above the ground warps and makes cracks in structures. larch and black alder do the best in damp; hard oak is rotted by sea water. beech and walnut are also well spoken of for use in water, these timbers indeed holding quite the first place among those that are used under the ground, and likewise juniper (which is also very serviceable for structures exposed to the air), whereas beech and turkey oak quickly decay, and the winter oak also will not stand damp. the alder on the other hand if driven into the ground in marshy places lasts for ever and stands a load of any amount. cherry is a strong wood, elm and ash are tough but liable to warp, although they are flexible; and they are more reliable if the trees are left standing and dried by ringing round the trunk. larch is reported to be liable to woodworm when used in seagoing vessels, and the same with all woods except the wild and the cultivated olive; in fact some woods are more liable to faults in the sea and others in the ground. 