it comes next after the heavens to give an account of the earth, a subject no easier to deal with, inasmuch as the same land is not as a rule suited for trees and for crops, and the black earth of the kind that exists in campania is not the best soil for vines everywhere, nor is a soil that emits thin clouds of vapour, nor the red earth that many writers have praised. the chalky soil in the territory of alba pompeia and a clay soil are preferred to all the other kinds for vines, although they are very rich, a quality to which exception is made in the case of that class of plants. conversely the white sand in the ticino district, and the black sand found in many places, and likewise red sand, even when intermingled with rich soil, are unproductive. the signs adduced in judging soil are often misleading. a soil in which lofty trees do brilliantly is not invariably favourable except for those trees: for what grows higher than a silver fir? yet what other tree could have lived in the same place? nor do luxuriant pastures always indicate a rich soil: for what is more famous than the pastures of germany? but immediately underneath a very thin skin of turf there is sand. and land where plants grow high is not always damp, any more, i protest, than soil that sticks to the fingers is always rich - a fact that is proved in the case of clay soils. in point of fact no soil when put back into the holes out of which it is dug completely fills them, so as to make it possible to detect a close soil and a loose soil in this manner; and all soil covers iron with rust. nor can a heavy or a light soil be detected by a standard of weight, for what can be understood to be the standard weight of earth? nor is alluvial soil deposited by rivers always to be recommended, seeing that some plants do not flourish in a damp situation; nor does that much praised alluvial soil prove in experience to be beneficial for a long period, except for a willow. one of the signs of a good soil is the thickness of the stalk in corn, which incidentally in the famous leborine plain in campania is so large that they use it as a substitute for wood; but this class of soil is everywhere hard to work, and owing to this difficulty of cultivation puts almost a heavier burden on the farmer because of its merits than it could possibly inflict by reason of defects. also the soil designated glowing-coal earth appears to be improved by marl; and in fact tufa of a pliable consistency is actually held by the authorities to be a desideratum. for vines virgil actually does not disapprove of a soil in which ferns grow; and many plants are improved by being entrusted to salt land, as they are better protected against damage from creatures breeding in the ground. hillsides are not denuded of their soil by cultivation if the digging is done skilfully, and not all level ground gets less than the necessary amount of sun and air; and some varieties of vine, as we have said, draw nourishment from frosts and clouds. all matters contain some deeply hidden mysteries, which each person must use his own intelligence to penetrate. what of the fact that changes often occur even in things that have been investigated and ascertained long ago? in the district of larisa in thessaly the emptying of a lake has lowered the temperature of the district, and olives which used to grow there before have disappeared, occur before; while on the other hand the city of aenos, since the river hebrus was brought near to it, has experienced an increase of warmth a and the district round philippi altered its climate when its land under cultivation was drained. on the other hand on land belonging to syracuse a farmer who was a newcomer to the district by removing the stones from the soil caused his crops to be ruined by mud, until he carried the stones back again. in syria they use a light ploughshare that cuts a narrow furrow, because the subsoil is rock which causes the seeds to be scorched in summer. 