at the present the lightest in weight among the kinds of wheat imported to rome is the wheat gaul, and that brought from the chersonese, as they do not exceed twenty pounds a peck, if one weighs the grain by itself. sardinian grain adds half a pound to this figure, and alexandrian a third of a pound more - this is also the weight of sicilian wheat - while that of southern spain scores a whole pound more and that of africa a pound and three-quarters. in italy north of the po the peck of emmer to my knowledge weighs 25 pounds, and around clusium even 26 pounds. it is a fixed law of nature that in any kind of commissariat bread a third part is added in the making to the weight of the grain, just as that the best wheat is that which absorbs three quarts of water into the peck of grain kneaded. some kinds of grain used by themselves give their full weight, for instance a peck of balearic wheat produces 35 pounds of bread, but some only do so when blended - for example, cyprian wheat and alexandrian, which used by themselves do not go beyond 20 pounds a peck. cyprus wheat is of a dusky colour and makes black bread, and consequently the white alexandrian is mixed with it, and that gives 25 pounds of bread to the peck. the wheat of the thebaid in egypt makes a pound more. to knead the flour with sea water, which they frequently do in seaside places for the sake of economizing salt, is extremely inexpedient, as there is nothing else that renders the body more liable to disease. when the corn of gaul and spain of the kinds we have stated is steeped to make beer the foam that forms on the surface in the process is used for leaven, in consequence of which those races have a lighter kind of bread than others. there is also a difference in the stalk, that of the better sort of grain being thicker. thracian wheat is clothed with a great many husks, which is necessary for that region because of the excessive frosts. the same reason has also led to the discovery of a three-month wheat, because the snow holds back the ground; it is reaped about three months after sowing, at the same time as wheat is harvested in the rest of the world. this wheat is known all over the alps, and in the provinces with cold climates no corn flourishes better than this; moreover it has a single stem and in no region holds much grain, and it is never sown except in a thin soil. there is actually a two-month variety in the neighbourhood of aenus in thrace, which begins to ripen six weeks after it is sown; and it is surprising that no corn weighs heavier, and that it produces no bran. it is also used in sicily and achaia, in both cases in mountain districts, and in euboea in the neighbourhood of carystus. so greatly is columella mistaken in his opinion that even three-month wheat is not a distinct variety, although it is of extreme antiquity. the greeks call it setanion. it is said that in bactria the grains of wheat grow so large that a single grain is as big as our ears of corn. 