accordingly these being the customs not only were the harvests sufficient for them without any of the provinces providing food for italy, but even the market price of corn was unbelievably low. manius marcius when aedile of the plebs for the first time [456 b.c.] provided the people with corn at the price of an as a peck. lucius minucius augurinus, who had procured the conviction of spurius maelius, when he was tribune of the people reduced the price of emmer to an as for a fortnight, and consequently had his statue erected outside the porta trigemina, the cost being met by public subscription. titus seius during his aedileship supplied the public with corn at an as a peck, on account of which he too had statues erected to him on the capitol and the palatine, and he himself at the end of his life was carried to his cremation on the shoulders of the populace. then it is recorded that in the summer of the year in which the mother of the gods was carried to rome there was a larger harvest than in the preceding ten years. marcus varro states that at the date when lucius metellus gave a procession of a very large number of elephants in his triumph, the price of a peck of emmer wheat was one as, as also was that of a gallon of wine, 30 pounds of dried figs, 10 pounds of oil and 12 pounds of meat. nor was this the result of the large estates of individuals who ousted their neighbours, inasmuch as by the law of licinius stolo the limit was restricted to 500 acres, and stolo himself was convicted under his own law because he owned a larger amount of land, held under his son's name instead of his own. such was the scale of prices when the state had already some luxury. at any rate there is a famous utterance of manius curius, who after celebrating triumphs and making a vast addition of territory to [290 b.c.] the empire, said that a man not satisfied with seven acres must be deemed a dangerous citizen; for that was the acreage assigned for commoners after the expulsion of the kings. what therefore was the cause of such great fertility? the fields were tilled in those days by the hands of generals themselves, and we may well believe that the earth rejoiced in a laurel-decked ploughshare and a ploughman who had celebrated a triumph, whether it was that those farmers treated the seed with the same care as they managed their wars and marked out their fields with the same diligence as they arranged a camp, or whether everything prospers better under honourable hands because the work is done with greater attention. the honours bestowed on serranus found [297 b.c.] him sowing seed, which was actually the origin of his surname. an apparitor brought to cincinnatus his commission as dictator when he was ploughing his four-acre property on the vatican, the land now called the quintian meadows, and indeed it is said that he had stripped for the work, and the messenger as he continued to linger said, 'put on your clothes, so that i may deliver the mandates of the senate and people of rome'. that was what apparitors were like even at that time, and their name itself a was given to them as summoning the senate and the leaders to put in an immediate appearance from their farms. but nowadays those agricultural operations are performed by slaves with fettered ankles and by the hands of malefactors with branded faces! although the earth who is addressed as our mother and whose cultivation is spoken of as worship is not so dull that when we obtain even our farm-work from these persons one can believe that this is not done against her will and to her indignation. and we forsooth are surprised that we do not get the same profits from the labour of slave-gangs as used to be obtained from that of generals! 