and now that we have spoken fully about the kinds of grain and of soil, we will now speak about the method of ploughing, beginning with an account of the easy conditions prevailing in egypt. in that country the nile plays the part of farmer, beginning to overflow its banks at the new moon in midsummer, as we have said, at first gently and then more or violently, as long as the sun is in the constellation of the lion. then when the sun has passed over into the virgin it slows down, and when the sun is in the scales it subsides. if it has not risen more than 18 feet, there is certain to be a famine, and likewise if it has exceeded 24 feet; for it retires more slowly in proportion as it has risen in greater flood, and prevents the sowing of seed. it used to be commonly believed that the custom was to begin sowing after the subsidence of the nile and then to drive swine over the ground, pressing down the seed in the damp soil with their footprints, and i believe that in former days this was the common practice, and that at the present day also the sowing is done without much heavier labour; but nevertheless it is certain that the seed is first scattered in the mud of the river after it has subsided and then ploughed in. this is done at the beginning of november, and afterwards a few men stub up the weeds - their name for this process is botanismus - but the rest of the labourers only visit the fields a little before the first of april, taking a sickle with them. however the harvest is completed in may, and the straw is never more than an ell long, as the subsoil is sand and the corn only gets its support from the mud. the district of the thebaid has corn of better quality, because egypt is marshy. seleucia in babylon has a similar method but greater fertility, owing to the overflow of the euphrates and the tigris, as there the amount of flooding is controlled by the hand of man. syria also ploughs with a narrow furrow, whereas in italy in many parts eight oxen strain panting at one ploughshare. in every department of agriculture but most of all in this one the greatest value attaches to the oracular precept: 'what the particular district will stand.' 