next in accordance with the division of the seasons comes autumn, from the setting of the lyre to the equinox and then the setting of the pleiades and the beginning of winter. in these periods important stages are marked by the horse rising in the region of attica and the dolphin setting for egypt and by caesar's reckoning on the evening of august 12. on august 22 the constellation called the vintager begins to rise at dawn for caesar and for assyria., announcing the proper time for the vintage; an indication of this will be the change of colour in the grapes. on august 28 the arrow sets for assyria and also the seasonal winds cease to blow. on september 5 the vintager rises for egypt, and in the morning arcturus for attica, and the arrow sets at dawn. on september 9, according to caesar, the she-goat rises in the evening, while half of arcturus becomes visible on september 12, indicating very unsettled weather on land and at sea for five days. the account given of this is that if there has been rain while the dolphin was setting it will not rain while arcturus is visible. the departure of the swallows may be noted as the sign of the rise of that constellation, since if they are overtaken by it they are killed off. on september 16 the ear of corn held by the virgin rises for egypt in the morning and the seasonal winds cease; this also appears for caesar on september 15 and for assyria on september 19; and on september 21 for caesar the knot in the fishes setting and the equinoctial constellation itself on september 24. then there is general agreement, which is a rare occurrence, between philippus, callippus, dositheus, parmeniscus, conon, crito, democritus and eudoxus, that the she-goat rises in the morning of september 28 and the kids on september 29. on october 2 the crown rises for attica at dawn, and the charioteer sets for asia and for caesar in the morning of october 3. on october 4 the crown begins to rise for caesar, and in the evening of the next day the kids set. on october 8 for caesar the bright star in the crown rises, and in the evening of october 10 the pleiades; and on october 15 the whole of the crown. in the evening of october 16 the little pigs rise. at daybreak on october 31 for caesar arcturus sets and the little pigs rise. in the evening of november 2 arcturus sets. on november 9 orion's sword begins to set; and then on november 11 the pleiades set. 