there are several causes that make grain keep: they are found either in the husk of the grain when this forms several coats, as with millet, or in the richness of the juice, which may be enough to supply moisture, as with gingelly, or in bitter flavour, as with lupine and chickling vetch. it is specially in wheat that grubs breed, because its density makes it get hot and the grain becomes covered with thick bran. barley chaff is thinner, and also that of the leguminous plants is scanty, and consequently these do not breed grubs. a bean is covered with thicker coats, and this makes it ferment. some people sprinkle the wheat itself with dregs of olive oil to make it keep better, eight gallons to a thousand pecks; others use chalk from chalcis or caria for this purpose, or even wormwood. there is also an earth found at olynthus and at cerinthus in euboea which prevents grain from rotting; also if stored in the ear corn hardly ever suffers injury. the most paying method however of keeping grain is in holes, called ciri, as is done in cappadocia and thrace, and in spain and africa; and before all things care is taken to make them in dry soil and then to floor them with chaff; moreover the corn is stored in this way in the ear. if no air is allowed to penetrate, it is certain that no pests will breed in the grain. varro states that wheat so stored lasts fifty years, but millet a hundred, and that beans and leguminous grain, if put away in oil jars with a covering of ashes, keep a long time. he also records that beans stored in a cavern in ambracia lasted from the period of king pyrrhus to pompey the great's war with the pirates, a period of about 220 years. chick-pea is the only grain which does not breed any grubs when kept in barns. some people pile leguminous seed in heaps on to jars containing vinegar, placed on a bed of ashes and coated with pitch, believing that this prevents pests from breeding in them, or else they put them in casks that have held salted fish and coat them over with plaster; and there are others who sprinkle lentils with vinegar mixed with silphium, and when they are dry give them a dressing of oil. but the speediest precaution is to gather anything you want to save from pests at the moon's conjunction. so it makes a very great difference who wants to store the crop or who to put it on the market, because grain increases in bulk when the moon is waxing. 