we find it stated in the most reliable authors of greece that this plant first sprang up in the vicinity of the gardens of the hesperids and the greater syrtis after the ground had been suddenly soaked by a shower of rain the colour of pitch, seven years before the foundation of the town of cyrenae, which was in the year of our city 143; that the effect of this rainfall extended over 500 miles of africa; and that the laser-wort plant grew widely in that country as an obstinate weed, and if cultivated, escaped into the desert; and that it has a large thick root and a stalk like that of fennel and equally thick. the leaves of this plant used to be called maspetunt; they closely resembled parsley, and the seed was like a leaf, the actual leaf being shed off in spring. it used to be customary to pasture cattle on it; it first acted as a purgative, and then the beasts grew fat and produced meat of a marvellously agreeable quality. after the plant had shed its leaves the people themselves used to eat the actual stalk, cooked in all sorts of ways, boiled and roasted; with them also it operated as a purge for the first six weeks. the juice used to be obtained in two ways, from the root and from the stalk, and the two corresponding names for it were rizias and caulias, the latter inferior to the former and liable to go bad. the root had a black rind. the juice itself was adulterated for trade purposes by being put into vessels with a mixture of bran added and then shaken up till it was brought into ripe condition; without this treatment it went bad. a proof of its being ripe was its colour and dryness, the damp juice having completely disappeared. other accounts say that the plant had a root more than 18 inches long, and that at all events there was an excrescence on it protruding above the surface of the ground; that when an incision was made in this, a juice resembling milk would flow out; and that there was a stalk growing above the excrescence which they called magydaris; that the plant had leaves of a golden colour which served as seed, being shed after the rise of the dog-star when a south wind was blowing, and that out of these fallen leaves shoots of laser-wort used to spring, both root and stalk making full growth in the space of a year. these authors also stated that it was customary to dig round the roots of the plant; and that it did not act as a purge with cattle, but if they were ailing it cured them, or else they died at once, the latter not happening in many cases. the former view corresponds with the persian variety of silphium. 