in egypt people swear by garlic and onions as deities in taking an oath. among the greeks the varieties of onion are the sardinian, samothracian, alsidenian, setanian, the split onion, and the ascalon onion, named from a town in judea. in all these the body consists entirely of coats of greasy cartilage; also they all have a smell which makes one's eyes water, especially the cyprus onions, but least of all those of cnidos. the smallest of all except the etruria onion is the setanian, though it has a sweet taste; but the split onion and the ascalon onion need flavouring. the split onion is left with its leaves on in winter, these being pulled off in spring, and others grow in their place at the same divisions, from which these onions get their name. this has suggested the recommendation to strip the other kinds also of their leaves, so as to make them grow to heads rather than run to seed. ascalon onions also have a peculiar nature, being in a manner sterile at the root, and consequently the greeks have advised growing them from seed and not planting them, and moreover sowing them rather late, about springtime, but transplanting them when they are in bud; this method, they say, causes them to fill out and grow quickly, making up for the time lost. but in their case haste is necessary, because when ripe they quickly go rotten. if growls from roots they throw out a stalk and run to seed, and the bulb withers away. there is also a difference of colours, the whitest onions growing at issus and at sardis. those of crete are also esteemed, though the question is raised whether they are identical with the ascalon variety, because when grown from seed they make large heads but run to stalk and seed when planted; they only differ from the ascalon onions in their sweet flavour. in our country we have two principal varieties, one the kind of onion used for seasoning, the greek name for which is getion-leek and the latin 'pallaeana', which is sown in march, april or may, and the other the onion with a head, which is sown after the autumn equinox or when the west wind has begun to blow in the springtime. the varieties of the latter, in order of their degrees of pungency, are the african, the gallic, and those of tusculum, ascalon and amiternae. those of the roundest shape are the best; also a red onion is more pungent than a white one, or a dry one than one still fresh, and a raw one than one that has been cooked, and also than one that has been kept in store. the amitemum kind is grown in cold and damp places, and is the only one that grows with a head only, like garlic, all other varieties being grown from seed and next summer producing no seed but only a head which goes on growing in size; but in the following year just the contrary, seed is produced but the actual head goes rotten. consequently every year there are two separate processes, seed being sown to produce onions and onions planted for seed. onions keep best stored in chaff. the scallion has hardly any head at all, only a long neck, and consequently it all goes to leaf, and it is cut back several times, like common leek; consequently it also is grown from seed, not by planting. in addition, they recommend digging over the ground three times and weeding out the plant-roots before sowing onions; and using ten pounds of seed to the acre, with savoury mixed in, as the onions come up better; and moreover stubbing and hoeing the ground four times, if not more. our farmers sow the ascalon onion in february. the seed of onions is harvested when they begin to turn black, before they get dry. 