growing cabbages is also one of the ways of supplying table luxuries, so it will not be out of place to pursue the subject at greater length. a way to produce a kale of outstanding flavour and size is if first of all you sow it in ground that has been dug, and next keep pace with the shoots breaking through the soil by earthing them up and when they begin to rise to a luxuriant height make another pile of earth against them by raising the bank so that not more than their head emerges. the kind so grown is called tritian cabbage, and it may be estimated that it takes twice the usual outlay and trouble. there are quite a number of other varieties: cumae cabbage, with its leaf close to the ground and a spreading head; aricia cabbage, no taller in height, with a leaf more plentiful than tender - this kind is considered extremely useful because underneath almost all the leaves it throws out small sprouts of a peculiar kind; the pompeii cabbage is taller, and has a thin stalk near the root but grows thicker between the leaves, these being scantier and narrower, but their tenderness is a valuable quality. this cabbage cannot stand cold, which actually promotes the growth of bruttian cabbages with their extremely large leaves, thin stalk and sharp taste. the sabellian cabbage has leaves that are quite remarkably crisp and so thick as to exhaust the stalk itself, but these are said to be the sweetest of all the cabbages. there have recently come into notice the lacuturna cabbages from the valley of la iticcia, which have a very large head and leaves too many to count; some of these cabbages are bunched together into a circular shape and others bulge out broadwise; and no other cabbages make more head, not counting the tritian kind, which is sometimes seen with a head measuring a foot across, and which sprouts as early as any other sort. but with any kind of cabbages hoarfrosts contribute a great deal to their sweetness, although a frost after the cabbages have been cut does the plants a great deal of damage, unless the pith is safeguarded by using a slanting cut. cabbages intended for seed are not cut. a peculiarly attractive kind is one that never exceeds the size of a young plant; they call these halmyridia, because they only grow on the seacoast. they say that these keep green even on a long voyage if as soon as they are cut they are prevented from touching the earth by being put into oil-jars that have been dried just before and are bunged up so as to shut out all air. some people think that the plant will mature more quickly if in the process of transplanting some seaweed is placed under the foot-stalk, or else a pinch of pounded soda, as much as can be picked up with three fingers; and some have a plan of sprinkling the leaves with soda ground up with trefoil seed. soda added in cooking also preserves the greenness of cabbages, as does also apicius's a recipe for steeping them in oil and salt before they are boiled. there is a method of grafting vegetables by cutting short the shoots and inserting into the pith of the stalk seed obtained from other plants; this has even been done in the case of wild cucumber. there is also a kind of wild cabbage which has been made famous particularly by the songs and jests of the troops at the triumph of the late lamented julius, as in capping verses they taunted him with having at the siege of dyrrachium made them live on white charlock - this was a hit at the stinginess with which he rewarded their services. this is a wild cabbage sprout. 