today the whole of the west is navigated from cadiz and the straits of gibraltar all round spain and france. but the larger part of the northern ocean was explored under the patronage of his late majesty augustus, when a fleet sailed round germany to the promontory of the cimbri, and thence seeing a vast sea in front of them or learning of it by report, reached the region of scythia and localities numb with excessive moisture. on this account it is extremely improbable that there is no sea in those parts, as there is a superabundance of the moist element there. but next, on the eastward side, the whole quarter under the same star stretching from the indian ocean to the caspian sea was navigated throughout by the macedonian forces in the reigns of seleucus and antiochus, who desired that it should be called both seleucis and antiochis after themselves. and many coasts of ocean round the caspian have been explored, and very nearly the whole of the north has been completely traversed from one side to the other by galleys, so that similarly also there is now overwhelming proof, leaving no room for conjecture, of the existence of the maeotic marsh, whether it be a gulf of that ocean, as i notice many have believed, or an overflow from it from which it is separated off by a narrow space. on the other side of cadiz, from the same western point, a great part of the southern gulf is navigated today in the circuit of mauretania. indeed the greater part of it alexander the great's eastern conquests also explored as far as the arabian gulf; in which, when augustus's son gaius caesar was operating there, it is said that figureheads of ships from spanish wrecks were identified. also when the power of carthage flourished, hanno sailed round from cadiz to the extremity of arabia and published a memoir of his voyage, as did himileo when despatched at the same date to explore the outer coasts of europe. moreover we have it on the authority of cornelius nepos that a certain contemporary of his named eudoxus when flying from king lathyrus emerged from the arabian gulf and sailed right round to cadiz; and much before him caelius antipater states that he had seen someone who had gone on a trading voyage from spain to ethiopia. nepos also records as to the northern circuit that quintus metellus celer, colleague of afranius in the consulship but at the time pro-consul of gaul, received from the king of the swabians a present of some indians, who on a trade voyage had been carried off their course by storms to germany. thus there are seas encircling the globe on every side and dividing it in two, so robbing us of half the world since there is no region affording a passage from there to here or from here to there. this reflexion serves to expose the vanity of mortals, and appears to demand that i should display to the eye and exhibit the extent of this whole indefinite region in which men severally find no satisfaction. 