cultivated radishes moreover, besides what has been said about them, purge the stomach, loosen phlegm, promote urine and bring away bile. in addition, a decoction of the skin in wine, drunk in the morning up to three cyathi, break up and eliminate gall-stones. a decoction of the same in vinegar and water is used as liniment for the bites of serpents. the radish too is good for a cough if taken with honey in the morning on an empty stomach; its seed too when roasted and chewed by itself. to use a radish as an amulet and to drink either a decoction of its leaves in water or its juice neat in doses of two cyathi is good for phthiriasis. good for inflammation is a liniment of radishes crushed by themselves, and for a fresh bruise a liniment made from the skin with honey. lethargic persons are benefited by eating them at their hottest, asthmatics by the seed, first roasted and then beaten up with honey. radishes are also useful for poisons, counteracting the sting of the cerastes and of the scorpion. with hands rubbed with radish or its seed you may handle these creatures without fear, and a radish placed on scorpions kills them. radishes too counteract the poisons of fungi and of henbane, and moreover, as nicander tells us, the effects of drinking bull's blood. both the physicians with the name of apollodorus prescribe radishes to be given for mistletoe poisoning; but apollodorus of citium recommends the pounded seed in water, he of tarentum the juice. radishes also reduce the size of the spleen, and are good for the liver and pains in the loins; taken also with vinegar or mustard they are beneficial in cases of dropsy, lethargus, epilepsy and melancholia. praxagoras would administer it to patients with iliac, and plistonicus to those with coeliae disease. if eaten with honey they also cure ulcers of the intestines and suppurations of the chest. some for these purposes prefer to cook them in mud; [mayhoff's reading: 'to smear them over with mud before cooking.'] if so taken they promote, according to them, the menstrual discharge. taken with vinegar or honey they bring away intestinal worms; a decoction of them boiled down to one third, drunk with wine, is good for intestinal hernia; so taken they draw off superfluous blood. for these purposes and for spitting of blood medius prescribes that they should be given cooked, as well as to women lying-in to increase the supply of milk; hippocrates that radishes should be rubbed on the head of women when the hair falls off, and that they should be placed on the navel for pains in the womb. they also bring scars back to the original colour of the skin. an application also of the seed soaked in water arrests ulcers called phagedaenae. democritus thinks that as a food radishes are aphrodisiac; for this reason, perhaps, some have maintained that they are injurious to the voice. the leaves, but only those of the long radish, are said to improve the eyesight; should however too strong a dose of radish be applied as a remedy, they prescribe the immediate use of hyssop, for it is antipathetic. for deafness the juice of the radish is dropped into the ear. but, for those who would vomit, it is very useful to eat radishes after a meal. 