our countrymen know among garden plants very few kinds of chaplet flowers, practically violets only and roses. the rose grows on what is not so much a shrub as a thorn, appearing also on a bramble; there too it has a pleasant though faint perfume. every bud appears at first enclosed in a shell full of grains, which presently swells and, after sloping itself into a green cone like a perfume box, gradually reddens, splitting and spreading out into a cup, which encloses the yellow points that stand out of its center. to make chaplets is about the least of the uses of the rose. it is steeped in oil, a process known even at the time of the trojan war, as homer bears witness. furthermore, it has made its way, as we have said, into ointments. by itself it possesses medicinal properties. it is an ingredient of plasters and of eye-salves by reason of its subtle pungency, even being used as a coating for the delicacies of our tables, being quite harmless. the most famous kinds of roses recognized by our countrymen are those of praeneste and those of campania. some have added the milesian rose, because of its brilliant fiery colour, though it never has more than twelve petals. next after it is esteemed the trachinian, of a less brilliant red, and then the alabandian, less highly prized, with whitish petals; the least prized, having very many, but very small petals, is called the prickly rose. for roses differ in the number of their petals, in the smooth or rough nature of the stem, in colour and in perfume. those with the fewest petals have five, but in other roses they are more numerous, since there is one kind called the hundred-petalled rose. in italy this grows in campania, but in greece around philippi, which however is not its native soil. mount pangaeus in the neighbourhood grows a rose with many but small petals. the natives transplant it, improving the variety by mere change of place. this kind, however, has not a very strong perfume, nor has any rose whose petal is very broad or large; in brief, an indie tion of the degree of perfume is the roughness of the bark. caepio, who lived when tiberius caesar was emperor, said that the hundred-petalled variety is never put into chaplets, except at the ends where these are as it were hinged together, since neither in perfume nor in appearance is it attractive. there is also the kind called the grecian rose by our countrymen, and by the greeks the lychnis (lamp rose), which appears only in moist localities? it never has more than five petals, is of the size of the violet, and has no perfume. another kind is called graecula (little greek rose), the petals of which are rolled together into a bunch. it never opens unless forced by the hand, and is always like a bud; the petals are very broad. another kind springs from a stem like that of the mallow, with leaves like olive leaves, called mucetum. between these in size is an autumn rose, named coroniola (little chaplet); all of these are without perfume except coroniola and the rose growing on a bramble. in so many ways is spuriousness possible! in other districts too the genuine rose also depends to a very great extent upon the soil for its main characteristics. the rose of cyrene has the finest perfume, for which reason the choicest ointment is to be obtained there. at carthage in spain there is an early rose that blossoms throughout the winter. weather too makes a difference; for in certain years the rose grows with less perfume, and furthermore all roses have more perfume on dry soils than on moist. it likes to be grown on soils that are neither rich nor clayey nor irrigated, being content with a rubbly soil, and fond in particular of ground on which rubble has been spread. the campanian rose is early, the milesian late, but the one that continues to flower the latest is the praenestine. the ground is dug deeper for roses than for crops, but shallower than for vines. they are very slow in growing from the seed, which is in the shell itself, right under the flower, and covered with down. for this reason it is preferred to graft shoots into an incision in the stem. and into the eyelets of the root, as with the reed, there is grafted one kind of rose that is pale, prickly, with very long twigs and five petals, the second among the greek roses. every rose however improves with pruning and burning; by transplanting also, as with vines, there is the best and quickest success if slips of the length of four fingers or more are planted after the setting of the pleiades and then transplanted at intervals of one foot while the west wind is blowing, the earth being frequently turned over around them. those who try to get their roses early, dig a trench a foot deep about the root, pouring in warm water as the cup is beginning to bud. 