wax is made after the honey has been extracted from the combs, but these must be first cleaned with water and dried for three days in the dark; then on the fourth day they are melted in a new earthen vessel on the fire, with just enough water to cover them, and then strained in a wicker basket. the wax is boiled again with the same this to be cold, contained in vessels smeared all water in the same pot, and poured into other water, round inside with honey. the best is that called punic wax; the next best is very yellow indeed, with the smell of honey, pure, but produced in pontus, the region of the poisonous honies, which makes me surprised at its established reputation; next is cretan wax, consisting in very great part of bee-glue, about which we have spoken in treating of the nature of bees. after these comes corsican wax, which as it is made from honey got by bees from box, is supposed to have a certain medicinal quality. punic wax is prepared in the following way. yellow wax is exposed to the wind several times in the open, then it is heated in water taken from the open sea, to which soda has been added. then they collect with spoons the 'flower,' that is, all the whitest parts, and pour into a vessel containing a little cold water. then it is boiled again by itself a in seawater, after which they cool the vessel itself with water. when they have done this three times, they dry the wax in the open, by sunlight and by moonlight, on a mat of rushes. for the moon makes it white while the sun dries it; to prevent the sun from melting it, they cover it with a piece of thin linen cloth. the greatest whiteness, however, is obtained if after the exposure to the sun the wax is once more boiled again. punic wax is the most useful for medicines. wax becomes dark with the addition of paper ash, and red with an admixture of alkanet; by paints it is made to assume various colours for forming likenesses, for the innumerable uses of men, and even for the protection of walls and of weapons. the other details about honey and about bees have been described in my treatment of the nature of the bee. of gardens indeed practically the whole account has been given. 