mago gives like instructions about the rush also that they call mariscus; for weaving mats he recommends that it too be gathered in june and up to the middle of july, giving the same instructions for drying it which i have mentioned in their proper place when dealing with sedge. he distinguishes another kind of rush, which i find is called the marine rush and by the greeks oxyschoenos. there are three kinds of it: the pointed, barren rush, which the greeks call the male, or oxys, while the other two are female, and bear a black seed. one of these, called by the greeks melancranis, is thicker and more bushy than the first; the third, called holoschoenus, being even more so. of these melancranis is found apart from other kinds of rush, but oxys and holoschoenus grow on the same turf. the most useful for wickerwork is holoschoenus, because it is pliant and fleshy; it bears a fruit like eggs sticking to one another. the rush we have called male is self-reproduced, the head being bent down into the earth, but melancranis is reproduced from its seed. except for this, the roots of every kind of rush die every year. rushes are used for fish-baskets, for the finer sort of wickerwork, and for the wicks of lamps, the pith being especially useful; and they grow to such a size near the maritime alps that when the hollow is cut open they measure almost an inch across, while in egypt some are as narrow as the holes in a sieve, and of a length not more useful than others. some botanists also distinguish as a separate class a triangular rush, which they call cyperos, though many do not recognize a distinction because of the resemblance of the name to cypiros. i however shall keep each distinct. cypiros is, as i have said, the same as gladiolus, and has a bulbous root. the most esteemed grows in the island of crete, the next in naxos and then comes that of phoenicia. the cretan is white, with a smell like that of nard; the naxian has a more pungent smell, the phoenician a faint one, and the egyptian (for it grows there also) none at all. cypiros dispels hard formations of the body, for we must now speak of remedies, as there is a wide use in medicine of flowers and perfumes generally. as for cypiros, i shall follow apollodorus who said that it should never be taken in drink; yet he maintained its great efficacy for stones in the bladder, which by this means he tries to remove. he has no doubt that it causes miscarriage in women, and records the following strange account of it. some foreign people, he says, take into the mouth smoke from this plant and thereby reduce the spleen, asserting that they do not leave their homes without inhaling this smoke, as the habit produces, even from day today, increased briskness and greater strength. he adds that to apply cypiros as a liniment with oil is a certain cure for chafings, offensive armpits and abrasions. 