what can be more hateful than the nettle? yet this plant, to say nothing of the oil which i have said is made from it in egypt, simply abounds in remedies. nicander assures us that its seed counteracts hemlock, and also the poison of fungi and of mercury. apollodorus says that with the broth of boiled tortoise it is good for salamander bites, and as an antidote for henbane, snake bites and scorpion stings. moreover, its pungent bitterness itself, by the mere touch, forces to subside swollen uvulas, restoring prolapsus of the uterus, and of the anus of babies, besides waking up lethargus patients if it touches their legs or better still their forehead. the same plant with the addition of salt heals dog bites; pounded and inserted it arrests nose bleeding, the root proving even better. mixed with salt it heals carcinoma and foul ulcers, likewise sprains, superficial abscesses, parotid abscesses and falling away of flesh from the bones. the seed taken with boiled must relieves suffocation of the uterus, and an application checks bleeding at the nose. taken in hydromel after dinner in a dose of two oboli it makes vomiting easy, while one obolus in wine refreshes after fatigue. uterine affections are relieved by an acetabulum of the roasted seed, and flatulence by taking it in boiled must. with honey it relieves asthma, clears the chest by the same made into an electuary, and with linseed cures pain in the side. hyssop may be added and a little pepper. it is used as an application for the spleen; roasted and taken as food it loosens constipated bowels. hippocrates declares that taken in drink it purges the uterus, that an acetabulum of it roasted and taken in sweet wine and applied with mallow juice relieves uterine pains, that intestinal worms are expelled if it be taken with hydromel and salt, and that a liniment made from its seed replaces disfiguring loss of hair. for affections of the joints and for gout most prescribe application of it with old oil or of the pounded leaves with bears' grease. the crushed root with vinegar is no less useful for the same purposes, and also for the spleen, and boiled in wine and mixed with old and salted axle-grease it disperses superficial abscesses. the same root dried is a depilatory. phanias the naturalist has sung its praises, maintaining that either boiled or preserved it is a most useful food for the trachea, cough, bowel catarrh, the stomach, superficial abscesses, parotid swellings and chilblains, that with oil it is sudorific, boiled with shell-fish a laxative, that with barley-water it clears the chest and promotes menstruation, and that mixed with salt it arrests creeping sores. for the juice too a use is found. an extract applied to the forehead checks bleeding at the nose; a draught is diuretic, breaks up stone in the bladder, and used as a gargle reduces the uvula. the seed should be gathered at harvest time, that of alexandria being most prized. for all these purposes, though the milder and tender nettles are efficacious, the well known wild variety is particularly so, and it has this further merit, when taken in wine, of removing leprous sores from the face. we are told that should an animal resist conception, its parts should be rubbed with a nettle. 