the texture of fungi is rather flabby, and there are several kinds of them, all derived only from the gum that exudes from trees. the safest have firm red flesh less pale than that of the mushroom; next comes the white kind, the stalk of which is distinguished by its enduing in a kind of flamen's cap; a third kind, hog fungi, are very well adapted for poisoning. recently they have carried off whole households and all the guests at banquets; annaeus serenus, for instance, captain of nero's guards, with the tribunes and centurions. what great pleasure can there be in such a risky food? some have classified fungi according to the kind of tree on which they grow, one class including those growing on the fig, fennel-giant, and the gum-exuding trees; inedible, as i have said, are those on the yew, the robur and the cypress. but who guarantees such things in the market? they all have a leaden colour. this will give an indication of poison, the closer it approximates to that of the bark of the tree. i have pointed out remedies for these poisonous fungi and shall do so again later on; in the meantime let me say that even this plant produces some remedies. glaucias considers that mushrooms are good for the stomach. hog fungi are hung up to dry, skewered on a rush as we see them come from bithynia. these they use as a remedy for the fluxes of the belly that are called bowel catarrh, and for fleshy growths on the anus, which they reduce and in time cause to disappear; they do the like to freckles and spots on women's faces. they are also steeped in water, as lead is, to make an application for diseases of the eyes. they are applied to septic sores and to rashes on the head, and in water to dog bites. i should like also to give some pieces of advice about cooking all kinds of mushrooms, since they are the only kind of food that exquisites prepare with their own hands, feeding on them in anticipation, and handling amber knives and equipment of silver. those i fungi will be poisonous which become harder in cooking; comparatively harmless will be those that are cooked with some soda added - at any rate if they are thoroughly cooked. they become safer when cooked with meat, or with pear stalks. pears too are good to take immediately after them. the nature of vinegar too is opposed to them and neutralizes any poisonous action. 