next come the various kinds of medicines to be obtained from apples. of these, spring apples are sour and injurious to the stomach, derange the bowels and bladder, and do harm to the sinews; cooked, however, they are less harmful. quinces are more pleasant when cooked; though when raw, provided they are ripe, they are good for spitting of blood, dysentery, cholera and coeliac disease. they are not of the same efficacy when cooked, for they lose the astringent power that resides in their juice; nevertheless, a decoction in rain water is made for the purposes i have mentioned above. for stomachache, moreover, they are applied, either raw or in a decoction, after the manner of a wax salve; also to the chest in attacks of high fever. the down on them heals carbuncles. boiled in wine and applied with wax they restore the hair lost through mange. raw quinces preserved in honey move the bowels. they add much to the pleasant taste of honey, and make it more beneficial to the stomach. boiled quinces preserved in honey and beaten up with a decoction of roseleaves are given by some as food for the treatment of affections of the stomach. the juice of raw quinces is good for the spleen, difficulty of breathing, and dropsy, as well as for the breasts, condylomata and varicose veins, and the flowers, both fresh and dried, for inflammations of the eyes, spitting of blood, and to regulate menstruation. a soothing juice is also derived from quinces by pounding them with sweet wine, which is good for coeliac affections and the liver. a decoction of them is also used to foment prolapsus of the uterus and of the intestines. an oil also is extracted from them, which i have called melinum, provided that the fruit is not grown on wet soil. hence the most useful are the quinces imported from sicily; while the sparrow quince, although nearly related, is not so good. the root of the quince tree, after a ring has been drawn round it, is pulled up with the left hand, the person doing so being careful to state why he is pulling it, and for whom. an amulet from such a root cures scrofulous sores. 