among the most celebrated plants aristolochia received its name, as is clear, from women with child, because they considered it to be î±ïî¯ïƒï„î· î»îµï‡î¿ïïƒî±î¹ï‚, that is, 'excellent for women in childbed.' latin writers call it 'earth apple,' distinguishing four kinds of it: one with round tubers on the root, and with leaves partly like those of the mallow and partly like those of ivy, but darker and softer: the second is the male plant, with a long root of four fingers' length, thick as a walking-stick; the third is very long and as slender as a young vine, with especially strong properties, and is called by some clematitis and by others cretica. all kinds of this plant are of the colour of boxwood, and have small stems and purple blossom. they bear small berries like caper berries. only the root has medicinal value. there is also a fourth kind, called plistolochia, more slender than the one last mentioned, with dense, hair-like masses for a root, and of the thickness of a. stoutish rush, which some surname polyrrhizos. all kinds have a drug-like smell, but that of the rather long and slender root is more agreeable; its fleshy outer skin in fact is even suitable for nard ointments. these plants grow on plains with a rich soil. the time to dig them up is at harvest; the earth is scraped off them before they are stored away. the most valued root, however, comes from pontus, and in every case the heaviest specimens are preferred; for medicines the round is more suitable, for snake bites the longer kind, but its greatest fame is that, if only it is applied to the uterus in beef after conception, it forms according to report male offspring. the fishermen of campania call the root that is round 'poison of the earth', and i have seen them scatter it over the sea, crushed and mixed with lime. the fish rush to it with wonderful greed, forthwith die, and float on the surface. the kind called polyrrhizos is reported to be very beneficial for sprains, bruises, and falls from a height, if the root is taken in water, for pleurisy and the sinews if the seed is used, and to be tonic and warming; it is reported to be the same plant as satyrion. 