the greatest part however of man's trouble is caused by the belly, the gratification of which is the life's work of the majority of mankind. for at one time it does not allow food to pass, at another it will not retain it, at another it does not take it, at another it does not digest it; and so much have our customs degenerated that it is chiefly through his food that a man dies. this, the most troublesome organ in the body, presses as does a creditor, making its demands several times a day. it is for the belly's sake especially that avarice is so acquisitive; for its sake luxury uses spices, voyages are made to the phasis, and the bottom of the ocean is explored. nobody, again, is led to consider how base an organ it is by the foulness of its completed work. therefore the tasks of medicine concerned with the belly are very numerous. looseness of the bowels is checked by a drachma dose of fresh scordotis beaten up with wine, or by the same quantity taken in a decoction, by polemonia in wine, which is also given for dysentery, by root of verbascum in doses of two fingers' size taken in water, the seed of nymphaea heraclia taken with wine, the upper root of xiphium, the dose being a drachma by weight, taken in vinegar, the seed of plantain beaten up in wine, plantain itself boiled in vinegar, or groats taken in plantain juice, also the plant boiled with lentils, or the plant dried, powdered and sprinkled in drink with parched and pounded poppies, juice of plantain injected or drunk, or betony in wine made warm with hot iron. betony is also administered in a dry wine for coeliac affections, for which hiberis also is applied locally in the way i have described. for tenesmus the root of nymphaea heraclia is taken in wine, psyllium in water, or a decoction of root of acoron. the juice of aizoum checks looseness of the bowels and dysentery, and expels round worms. root of symphytum taken in wine checks looseness of the bowels and dysentery, as does the root of daucum. leaves of aizoum thoroughly beaten up in wine arrest griping pains, as does dried alcima powdered and taken with wine. 