ulcers are of many kinds, and the methods of treatment are many. to running sores is applied in warmed wine the root of any kind of panaces. a specific for drying them is the herb i have chironia; beaten up with honey it opens hard swellings, and affords relief to desperate cases of spreading ulcers; it is diluted with wine and combined with flower of copper, and seed, flower or root may be used indiscriminately. this plant with pearl barley is also good for old wounds, so too is heraclion siderion, apollinaris, psyllium and tragacantha. scordotis with honey cleanses them; its powder consumes morbid excrescences of flesh, if sprinkled on them by itself. polemonia heals ulcers that are called malignant; the greater centaury, whether sprinkled or applied as liniment, the tuft also of the lesser centaury, boiled down or beaten up, cleanses and thoroughly heals even chronic ulcers. the seed pods of clymenus are applied to fresh wounds. from gentian too is made a liniment for spreading ulcers; the pounded root is boiled down in water to the consistency of honey or the juice may be used; from gentian is made a lycium for wounds. lysimachia is good treatment for fresh wounds, and plantain for ulcers of all kinds, especially for those of old men and babies. it is better when softened by fire, and with wax-salve cleanses the thickened lips of ulcers and arrests corrosive sores. the pounded plant when applied should be covered with its own leaves. suppurations, gatherings and pitted ulcers are also dried up by chelidonia, wounds are healed so well that it is even used instead of spodium. it is also applied with axle-grease to sores that are already despaired of. dittany taken in drink forces out arrows; an external application causes to fall out other kinds of weapons - the dose for a draught is an obolus of the leaves in a cyathus of water - and bastard dittany is almost as effective; both too disperse suppurations. aristolochia also eats away festering ulcers, with honey cleanses those that are foul, expels worms, the callosities also that form in ulcers and all things embedded in the flesh, especially with resin arrows and bone splinters; but the pits of ulcers it fills up by itself or with the addition of iris. for fresh wounds it is used in vinegar; for chronic ulcers vervain is used, or cinquefoil with salt and honey. the roots of persollata are applied to fresh wounds that have been inflicted by iron, and the leaves to old wounds, axle-grease being added to both with a covering of the plant's leaves. other applications are damasonium, used as for serofula, and the leaves of verbascum in vinegar or wine. peristereos is good for all kinds of ulcers, even when hard and festering. running ulcers are cured by root of nymphaea heraclia, also by the root of cyclamen, by itself, in vinegar, or with honey. this last is also excellent for fatty tumours, as is hyssop for running ulcers, and peucedanum also, which when used for fresh wounds is so powerful as to exfoliate bones. the two kinds of anagallis also have this property, and check fluxes and the sores called nomae, being useful for fresh wounds, but especially for those on the flesh of the aged. abscesses and foul ulcers may be treated with fresh leaves of mandrake and wax-salve, wounds with its root and honey or oil, or with hemlock added to wheat and neat wine. for herpes also, nomae and festering ulcers, aizoum may be used, as may erigeron for verminous sores, for fresh wounds root of astragalus, and for chronic ulcers either kind of hypocisthis, which cleanses them. the seed of leontopodium, beaten up in water and applied with pearl barley, extracts the heads of arrows, as does also the seed of pycnocomon. the juice of tithymallus characites heals gangrenes, phagedaenic sores and purulent ulcers, as does a decoction of the branches with pearl barley and oil; the roots of orchis moreover with honey cure even malignant sores, healing wounds without further addition, and whether dry or freshly gathered. onothera heals ulcers that are becoming virulent. the scythians treat wounds with scythice. for carcinoma argemonia applied with honey is very efficacious. for ulcers prematurely healed root of asphodel, boiled down as i have said, beaten up with pearl barley and applied, is good; but apollinaris is good for any kind of sore, and root of astragalus, beaten to powder, for ulcers that are running, and so is callithrix boiled down in water; specific however for sores caused by footwear is vervain, crushed lysimachia also, and dried nymphaea reduced to powder. but when these last have become chronic polythrix proves more useful. 