he used, moreover, to attract men's minds by the empty artifice of promising the sick, now wine, which he administered as opportunity occurred, while now he would prescribe cold water; and since herophilus had anticipated him in inquiring into the causes of diseases, and cleophantus among the ancient physicians had brought to prominent notice the treatment by wine, he preferred, according to marcus varro, to win for himself the surname of 'cold-water giver.' he devised also other attractive methods of treatment, such as suspended beds, so that by rocking them he could either relieve diseases or induce sleep; again, he organized a system of hydropathy, which appeals to man's greedy love of baths, and many other things pleasant and delightful to speak of, which won him a great professional reputation. his fame was no less great when, on meeting the funeral cortege of a man unknown to him, he had him removed from the pyre and saved his life. this incident i give lest any should think that it was on slight grounds that so violent a changes took place. one thing alone moves me to anger: that one man, of a very superficial race, beginning with no resources, in order to increase his income suddenly gave to the human race rules for health, which however have subsequently been generally discarded. the success of asclepiades owed much to the many distressing and crude features of ancient medical treatment; for instance, it was the custom to bury patients under coverings, and to promote perspiration by every possible means, now to roast the body before a fire, or continually to make them seek sunshine in our rainy city, nay throughout rainy imperial italy: then for the first time were used hot-air baths, heated from below, treatment of infinite attractiveness. besides this he did away with the agonizing treatment employed in certain diseases; for example in quinsy, which physicians used to treat by thrusting an instrument into the throat. he rightly condemned emetics also, which were at that time employed unduly often. he disapproved also of administering draughts that are injurious to the stomach, a criticism which is to a great extent a sound one. that is why i always point out in the first place those remedies that are beneficial to the stomach. 