above all asclepiades was helped by magian deceits, which prevailed to such a degree that they were strong enough to destroy confidence in all herbal remedies. it was believed that by the plant aethiopis rivers and pools are dried up; that by the touch of onothuris all things shut are opened; that if achaemenis is thrown on the ranks of an enemy the lines turn their backs in panic; that latace was wont to be given by the persian king to his envoys, so that wherever they went they might enjoy an abundant supply of everything, with much similar nonsense. where then were these plants when the cimbri and the teutones raised their awful war yells, or when lucullus with a few legions laid low so many kings of the magi? or why have roman generals always made victualling a first care in their wars? why did caesar's soldiers at pharsalia feel hunger, if abundant plenty could have been given them by the happy property of a single plant? would it not have been better for scipio aemilianus to open the gates of carthage by a plant than to shake the defences for so many years with battering-rams? let the pomptine marshes be drained today by the plant merois, and much land be recovered for italy near rome. but as for the medical prescription found in the same democritus, to ensure the begetting of beautiful, good and lucky children, did it ever give such offspring to any persian king? it would certainly be wonderful that the credulity of our forefathers, though it arose from most sound beginnings, reached the height it did, if in any matter man's wit knew moderation, and i were not about to show, in the appropriate place, that this very system of medicine invented by asclepiades has surpassed even magian nonsense. it is without exception the nature of the human mind that what begins with necessities is finally carried to excess. i shall therefore go on to describe the omitted properties of the plants i dealt with in the preceding book, adding any other plants that my judgment will suggest. 