but who could revere enough the diligent research of the ancients? it is established that of all poisons the quickest to act is aconite, and that death occurs on the same day if the genitals of a female creature are but touched by it. this was the poison that marcus caelius accused calpurnius bestia of using to kill his wives in their sleep. hence the damning peroration of the prosecutor's speech accusing the defendant's finger. fable has it that aconite sprang out of the foam of the dog cerberus when hercules dragged him from the underworld, and that this is why it grows around heraclea in pontus, where is pointed out the entrance to the underworld used by hercules. yet even aconite the ancients have turned to the benefit of human health, by finding out by experience that administered in warm wine it neutralizes the stings of scorpions. it is its nature to kill a human being unless in that being it finds something else to destroy. against this alone it struggles, regarding it as more pressing than the find. [this is the only fight, when the aconite discovers a poison in the viscera.] what a marvel! although by themselves both are deadly, yet the two poisons in a human being perish together so that the human survives. moreover even remedies used by wild beasts have been handed down by the ancients, who have shown how venomous a creatures also by themselves obtain healing. scorpions, touched by aconite, become numbed, and are pale and stupefied, acknowledging their defeat. they find a help in white hellebore, its touch dispelling the torpor; the aconite yields to two evil foes, one peculiar to itself and one common to all creatures. if anyone believes that these discoveries could, by any chance, have been made by a man, he shows himself ungrateful for the gods' gifts. they touch flesh with aconite, and kill panthers by a mere taste of it, otherwise panthers would overrun the regions where they are found. for this reason some have called aconite pardalianehes, that is panther-strangler. but it has been proved that panthers are at once saved from this death by tasting human excrement; surely nobody doubts that this remedy has been found by chance, and that on every occasion it is even today a new find, since wild animals have neither reason nor experience for results to be passed from one to another. this chance therefore, this is that great deity who has made most of the discoveries that enrich our life, this is the name of him by whom is meant she who is at once the mother and the mistress of all creation. either guess is equally likely, whether we judge that wild animals make these discoveries every day or that they possess a never-failing instinct. again it is shameful that all animals except man know what is health-giving for themselves. our ancestors however advertised the view that aconite is also a very health-giving ingredient of preparations for the eyes, openly declaring their belief that no evil a at all is without some admixture of good. it will therefore be right for me, who have described no poisons, to point out the nature of aconite, if only for the purpose of detecting it. it has leaves like those of cyclamen or of cucumber, not more than four, rising from the root and slightly hairy, and a root of moderate size, like a crayfish (cammarus), whence some have called it cammaran, and others thelyphonon, for the reason i have given already. the end of the root curves up a little like a scorpion's tail, whence some have called it also scorpion. there have been some who would prefer to call it myoctonos since at a distance, even a long distance, its smell kills rats and mice. the plant grows on bare crags which are called aconae, and for that reason some have given it the name of aconite, there being nothing near, not even dust, to give it nourishment. this then is the reason for its name given by some; others have thought it was so named because it had the same power to cause rapid death as whetstones had to give an edge to an iron blade; no sooner was the stone applied than its rapid action was noticeable. 