there are several kinds of wormwood. the santonic comes from the state of the santoni in gaul, the pontic from pontus, where cattle fatten on it, and so are found to be without gall; there is no finer wormwood than this, the italian being far more bitter, but the pith of pontic wormwood is sweet. about its use there is general agreement, for it is a plant very easily found, and one of the most useful, being moreover especially honoured at the religious rites of the roman people, seeing that at the latin festival there is a race for four-horse chariots on the capitoline hill, the winner of which takes a draught of wormwood, our ancestors thinking, i believe, that health was a very grand prize to give. it strengthens the stomach and for this reason it is used, as i have said, to give a flavour to wines. a decoction in water, which is afterwards cooled in the open for a day and a night, is also taken; six drachmae of the leaves with their branches are boiled down in three sextarii of rain water; salt too should be added. when very old it can still be used. there is also administered an infusion of wormwood in water; for this preparation should be styled 'infusion,' and an essential of the infusion is that, whatever quantity of water is used, for three days the preparation should be wholly enclosed. pounded wormwood is rarely employed; rarely too the extracted juice. it is extracted, however, as soon as the seed begins to swell, the plant being soaked in water for three days when fresh and for seven when dried; it is then boiled down to one third in a bronze vessel, ten heminae to forty-five sextarii of water; and after being strained to remove the solid pieces it is boiled down again to the thickness of honey, just like juice obtained from the lesser centaury. but this juice is injurious to the stomach and head, while the decoction i mentioned is very wholesome. for it is astringent to the stomach, and with sil, gallic nard and a little vinegar, brings away bile, promotes urine, soothes the bowels, curing them when in pain, drives out worms from the belly, and removes nausea and flatulence. with rue, pepper and salt, it takes away the distaste for food, and aids digestion, bringing away undigested food. as a purge, the old custom was to give six drachmae of the seed, three of salt, and a cyathus of honey, in a sextarius of sea water kept for a time, the purge being more efficacious if the amount of salt is doubled. the pounding however must be carefully done, as it is a difficult task. some have also given the aforesaid weight in pearl barley with the addition of pennyroyal; some the leaves in a dried fig to children, so that the bitter taste is not noticed. taken with iris it purges the thorax. for jaundice it is taken raw in drink with celery or adiantum. for flatulence it is slowly sipped hot in water; for the liver it is taken with gallic nard; for the spleen, with vinegar, pottage or fig. in vinegar it is an antidote to poisonous fungi, as also to mistletoe; in wine, to hemlock, the poison of the shrew mouse, sea weever and scorpions. it is a great aid to clear vision. with raisin wine it is applied to eye fluxes, and with honey to bruises. ear trouble is cured by fumigation with the steam of the decoction, or when bloody pus exudes, by pounded wormwood with honey. three or four twigs, with one root of gallic nard and six cyathi of water, are diuretic and an emmenagogue; it is specific for faulty menstruation if taken with honey or applied as a pessary in wool. with honey and soda it is helpful for quinsy. in water it cures night rashes. recent wounds it heals if applied before they have been touched with water; it cures, moreover, sores on the head. with cyprian wax or with fig it makes an exceptionally good application for affections of the flanks. it also cures pruritus, but must not be given to feverish patients. taken in drink on sea voyages it prevents nausea; worn under a belly-band, swellings of the groin. it induces sleep if inhaled through the nose or placed secretly under the sufferer's head. put into clothes it keeps away moth. rubbing the body all over with it in oil drives away gnats, as does the smoke of it when burnt. writing ink mixed with the infusion protects the writing from mice. ashes of wormwood mixed with ointment and rose-oil stain the hair black. 