these schools disagreed with each other, and were all condemned by herophilus, who divided pulsation into rhythmic feet for the various periods of life. then this sect also was abandoned, because it was necessary for its members to have book-learning, and that sect also was changed that afterwards had been founded, as i have related, by asclepiades. he had a pupil called themison, who at first followed his master, but then later in life he also changed his tenets, a further change being made by antonius musa, another pupil of asclepiades, with the support of the late emperor augustus, whose life in a dangerous illness he had saved by reversing the treatment. i pass over many famous physicians, among them men like cassius, calpetanus, arruntius and rubrius. two hundred and fifty thousand sesterces were their annual incomes from the emperors. q. stertinius said that the emperors were in his debt because he had been content with an income of five hundred thousand sesterces a year, proving by a counting of homes that his city practice had brought in six hundred thousand. a like fortune also was showered by claudius caesar upon his brother, and the estates, although exhausted by beautifying naples with buildings, left to the heir thirty million, arruntius alone in the same age leaving as much. then there arose vettius valens, celebrated for his intrigue with messalina, wife of claudius caesar, and equally so for his eloquence. chancing to gain followers and power he founded a new sect. the same generation in the principate of nero rushed over to thessalus, who swept away all received doctrines, and preached against the physicians of every age with a sort of rabid frenzy. the wisdom and talent he showed can be fully judged even by one piece of evidence: on his monument on the appian way he described himself as iatronices, the conqueror of physicians. no actor, no driver of a three-horse chariot, was attended by greater crowds than he as he walked abroad in public, when crinas of massilia united medicine with another art, being of a rather careful and superstitious nature, and regulated the diet of patients by the motions of the stars according to the almanacs of the astronomers, keeping watch for the proper times, and outstripped thessalus in influence. recently he left ten millions, and the sum he spent upon building the walls of his native city and other fortifications was almost as much. these men were ruling our destinies when suddenly the state was invaded by charmis, also from massilia, who condemned not only previous physicians but also hot baths, persuading people to bathe in cold water even during the winter frosts. his patients he plunged into tanks, and we used to see old men, consulars, actually stiff with cold in order to show off. of this we have today a confirmation even in the writings of annaeus seneca. there is no doubt that all these, in their hunt for popularity by means of some novelty, did not hesitate to buy it with our lives. hence those wretched, quarrelsome consultations at the bedside of the patient, no consultant agreeing with another lest he should appear to acknowledge a superior. hence too that gloomy 'inscription on monuments.' it was the crowd of 'physicians that killed me.' medicine changes every day, being furbished up again and again, and we are swept along on the puffs of the clever brains of greece. it is obvious that anyone among them who acquires power of speaking at once assumes supreme command over our life and slaughter, just as if thousands of peoples do not live without physicians, though not without physic, as the roman people have done for more than six hundred years, although not slow themselves to welcome science and art, being actually greedy for medicine until trial led them to condemn it. 