the alps, and the alpine nations: many nations dwell among the alps; but the more remarkable, between pola and the district of tergeste, are the secusses, the subocrini, the catali, the menocaleni, and near the carni the people formerly called the taurisci, but now the norici. adjoining to these are the rhaeti and the vindelici, who are all divided into a multitude of states. it is supposed that the rhaeti are the descendants of the tuscans, who were expelled by the gauls and migrated hither under the command of their chief, whose name was rhaetus. turning then to the side of the alps which fronts italy, we have the euganean nations enjoying latin rights, and of whom cato enumerates thirty-four towns. among these are the triumpilini, a people who were sold with their territory; and then the camuni, and several similar tribes, each of them in the jurisdiction of its neighbouring municipal town. the same author also considers the lepontii and the salassi to be of tauriscan origin, but most other writers, giving a greek interpretation to their name, consider the lepontii to have been those of the followers of hercules who were left behind in consequence of their limbs being frozen by the snow of the alps. they are also of opinion that the inhabitants of the grecian alps are descended from a portion of the greeks of his army, and that the euganeans, being sprung from an origin so illustrious, thence took their name. the head of these are the stoeni. the vennonenses and the sarunetes, peoples of the rhaeti, dwell about the sources of the river rhenus, while the tribe of the lepontii, known as the uberi, dwell in the vicinity of the sources of the rhodanus, in the same district of the alps. there are also other native tribes here, who have received latin rights, such as the octodurenses, and their neighbours the centrones, the cottian states, the ligurian vagienni, descended from the caturiges, as also those called montani; besides numerous nations of the capillati, on the confines of the ligurian sea. 