for women's complaints the afterbirth of an ewe is of service, as i said when speaking of goats. the dung too of sheep has the same medicinal uses. fumigation with lobsters is of the greatest help in strangury in women. if occasionally after conception a woman eats the testicles of a cock, males are said to be formed in the uterus. the foetus is retained by taking in drink the ash of porcupines, brought to maturity by drinking bitch's milk, and withdrawn by the afterbirth of a bitch, which must not touch the earth, laid on the loins of the woman in childbed. mouse dung diluted with rain water reduces the breasts of women swollen after childbirth. rubbing the woman all over with the ash of hedgehogs and oil prevents miscarriage. the delivery of those is easier who have swallowed goose a with two cyathi of water, or the liquids that flow from a weasel's uterus through its genitals. applying earthworms prevents pains in the sinews of neck and shoulders, and taken in raisin wine bring away a sluggish afterbirth. these worms laid by themselves on the breasts also mature suppurations there, open them, draw out the pus, and make them cicatrize. taken with honey wine they stimulate the flow of milk. there are also little worms found n grass; these, tied round the neck as an amulet, prevent a miscarriage, but they are taken off just before the birth, otherwise they prevent delivery, care too must be taken not to lay them on the earth. further, to cause conception five or seven at a time are given in drink. snails taken in food hasten delivery, and conception too if applied with saffron. an application of snails in starch and tragacanth arrests fluxes. they are also good for menstruation if taken in food, and correct with deer's marrow displacements of the uterus; to one snail should be added a denarius by weight of marrow and cyprus oil. inflation too of the uterus is dispersed by snails taken out of their shells and beaten up with rose oil. for these purposes the most preferred are snails of astypalaea. african snails are prepared in a different way; doses of two are beaten up with a three-finger pinch of fenugreek, four spoonfuls of honey added, and the whole applied after rubbing the abdomen with iris juice. there are also found straying everywhere small snails with a white corslet. dried in the sun on tiles, crushed to powder, and mixed with an equal quantity of bean meal, these impart both whiteness and smoothness to the skin. the desire to scratch is removed by the small, broad snails with pearl barley. if a woman with child step across a viper she will miscarry; similarly if she cross an amphisbaena, a dead one at least, but those that carry on their persons a live one in a box step across with impunity; even if it is a dead one and preserved it makes childbirth easy. in the case of a dead one, wonderful to relate, no harm is done should a pregnant woman cross it without a preserved one, if she at once crosses a preserved one. fumigation with a dried snake assists menstruation. 