toothache is also cured, the magi tell us, by the ash of the burnt heads without any flesh of dogs that have died of madness, which must be dropped in cyprus oil through the ear on the side where the pain is; also by the left eye-tooth of a dog, the aching tooth being scraped round with it; by one of the vertebrae of the draco or of the enhydris, the serpent being a white male. with this eye-tooth they serape all round the painful one, or they make an amulet of two upper teeth, when the pain is in the upper jaw, using lower teeth for the lower jaw. with its fat they rub hunters of the crocodile. they also scrape teeth with bones extracted from the forehead of a lizard at a full moon, without their touching the earth. they rinse the mouth with a decoction of dogs' teeth in wine, boiled down to one-half. the ash of these teeth with honey helps children who are slow in teething. a dentifrice also is made with the same ingredients. hollow teeth are stuffed with the ash of mouse dung or with dried lizards' liver. a snake's heart, eaten or worn as an amulet, is considered efficacious. there are among them some who recommend a mouse to be chewed up twice a month to prevent aches. earthworms, boiled down in oil and poured into the ear on the side where there is pain, afford relief. these also, reduced to ash and plugged into decayed teeth, force them to fall out easily, and applied to sound teeth relieve any pain in them. they should be burnt, however, in an earthen pot. they also benefit if boiled down in squill vinegar with the root of a mulberry tree, so as to make a wash for the teeth. the maggot also, which is found on the plant called venus' bath, plugged into hollow teeth, is wonderfully good. but they fall out at the touch of the cabbage caterpillar, and the bugs from the mallow are poured into the ears with rose oil. the little grains of sand, that are found in the horns of snails, if put into hollow teeth, free them at once from pain. empty snail shells, reduced to ash and myrrh added, are good for the gums, as is the ash of a serpent burnt with salt in an earthen pot, poured with rose oil into the opposite ear, or the slough of a snake with oil and pitch-pine resin warmed and poured into either ear - some add frankincense and rose oil - and if put into hollow teeth it also makes them fall out without trouble. i think it an idle talc that white snakes cast their slough about the rising of the dog-star, since the casting has been seen in italy before the rising, and in warm regions it is much less probable for sloughing to be so late. but they say that this slough, even when dry, combined with wax forces out teeth very quickly. a snake's tooth also, worn as an amulet, relieves toothache. there are some who think that a spider also is beneficial, the animal itself, caught with the left hand, beaten up in rose oil, and poured into the ear on the side of the pain. the little bones of hens have been kept hanging on the wall of a room with the gullet intact; if a tooth is touched, or the gum scraped, and the bone thrown away, they assure us that the pain at once disappears, as it does if a raven's dung, wrapped in wool, is worn as an amulet, or if sparrows' dung is warmed with oil and poured into the ear nearer the pain. this however causes unbearable itching, and so it is better to rub the part with vinegar and the ash of a sparrow's nestlings burnt on twigs. 