it is a question debated by the physicians what kinds of water are most beneficial. they rightly condemn stagnant and sluggish waters, holding that running water is more beneficial, as it is made finer and more healthy by the mere agitation of the current. for this reason i am surprised that some physicians recommend highly water from cisterns. but these physicians put forward a reason; the lightest water, they say, is rainwater, seeing that it has been able to rise and to be suspended in the atmosphere. therefore they also prefer snow and ice even more than snow, as though its texture were rarefied to the utmost; for, they say, snow and ice are lighter than water, and ice much lighter. to refute this view is a matter that is important to all men. for first of all, this lightness of water can be discovered with difficulty except by sensation, as the kinds of water differ practically nothing in weight. nor is it proof of the lightness of rain water that it rose to the sky, since even stones are seen to do the same, and as it falls it is infected with exhalations from the earth. hence it comes about that rainwater is found to be full of dirt, for which reason this water becomes hot very quickly. that snow indeed and ice should be considered the finest form of that element makes me wonder, when i have before me the evidence of hailstones, to drink the water of which it is agreed is most unwholesome. not a few physicians however themselves maintain that hail and snow on the contrary make very unhealthy drink, since there has been taken from it what was its thinnest part. certainly it is found that every liquid becomes smaller when frozen, that too much dew brings blight, and hoar frost blast, effects caused by snow also being akin. rainwater, it is agreed, becomes putrid very quickly, and it is the worst water to stand a voyage. epigenes, however, says that water which has become putrid and been purified seven times becomes putrid no more. but cistern water even physicians admit is harmful to the bowels and throat because of its hardness, and no other water contains more slime or disgusting insects. yet it must be admitted, they hold, that river water is not ipso facto the most wholesome, nor yet that of any torrent whatsoever, while there are very many lakes that are wholesome. what water then, and of what kind, is the best? it varies with the locality. the kings of parthia drink only of the choaspes and the eulaeus; water from these rivers is taken with them even into distant regions. but it is clear that the water of these rivers does not find favour just because they are rivers, for the kings do not drink from the tigris, euphrates, or many other rivers. 