springs arise often when woods have been cut down, being used up before as sustenance for the trees; this happened when cassander was besieging the gauls after the woods on mount haemus had been felled by them to make a rampart. often indeed devastating torrents unite when from hills has been cut away the wood that used to hold the rains and absorbs them. it also improves the water supply for the earth to he dug and tilled, and for the hard surface crust to be broken up. it is at any rate reported that in crete, when a town called arcadia had been stormed, the many springs and rivers of that region went dry, and six years afterwards, when the town was rebuilt, they reappeared, as each piece of land came under cultivation. earthquakes too make water break out or swallow it up, for example, as is well known, around pheneus in arcadia this has happened five times. thus too on mount coryeus a river burst out, but afterwards came to be tilled ground. any change is startling when no obvious reason for it is to be seen. in magnesia for instance hot water became cold but its salty flavour remained unaltered; while in caria, where the temple of neptune is, a river which before had been sweet was changed to salt. the following phenomena too are very wonderful: the arethusa at syracuse smells of dung during the olympian games, a likely thing, for the alpheus crosses to that island under the bed of the seas. a spring in the rhodian chersonesus pours out refuse every ninth year. the colour too of water changes, for example at babylon a lake in summer has red water for eleven days, and the borysthenes at fixed intervals flows with a blue colour, although of all waters it is the thinnest, and for that reason flows above the hypanis. wherein is another marvel: when south winds blow the hypanis goes above. but other evidence for the thinness of the borysthenes is that it gives out no exhalation, not to say no mist. those who wish to be thought careful enquirers into these matters say that water becomes heavier after the winter solstice. 