of sea salt the most in favour comes from salamis in cyprus, of pool salt that from tarentum and that from phrygia which is called tattaean. the last two are useful for the eyes. the salt imported from cappadocia in little bricks is said to impart a gloss to the skin. but the salt i have said comes from citium a smoothes the skin better, and so after childbirth it is applied with melanthium to the abdomen. the saltest salt is the driest, the most agreeable and whitest of all is the tarentine; for the rest, it is the whitest that is the most friable. all salt is made sweet by rainwater, more agreeable, however, by dew, but plentiful by gusts of north wind. it does not form under a south wind. flower of salt forms only with north winds. tragasaean salt and acanthian, so named after towns, neither crackles nor sputters in a fire, nor does froth of any salt, or scrapings, or powder. salt of agrigentum submits to fire and sputters in water. the colour too of salt varies: blushing red at memphis, tawny red near the oxus, purple at centuripae, it is of such brightness near gela (also in sicily) that it reflects an image. in cappadoeia salt is quarried of a saffron colour, transparent, and very fragrant. for medicinal purposes the ancients used to favour most highly tarentine salt, next, all kinds of sea salt, and of these especially that from foam, while for the eyes of draught animals and cattle salt of tragasa and baetica. to season meats and foods the most useful otter one melts easily and is rather moist, for it is less bitter, such as that of attica and euboea. for preserving meat the more suitable salt is sharp and dry, like that of megara. a conserve too is made with fragrant additions, which is used as a relish, creating and sharpening an appetite for every kind of food, so that in innumerable seasonings it is the taste of salt that predominates, and it is looked for when we eat garum. moreover sheep, cattle, and draught animals are encouraged to pasture in particular by salt; the supply of milk is much more copious, and there is even a far more pleasing quality in the cheese. therefore, heaven knows, a civilized life is impossible without salt, and so necessary is this basic substance that its name is applied metaphorically even to intense mental pleasures. we call them sales (wit); all the humour of life, its supreme joyousness, and relaxation after toil, are expressed by this word more than by any other. it has a place in magistracies also and on service abroad, from which comes the term 'salary' (salt money); it had great importance among the men of old, as is clear from the name of the salarian way, since by it, according to agreement, salt was imported to the sabines. king ancus marcius gave a largess to the people of 6,000 bushels of salt, and was the first to construct salt pools. varro too is our authority that the men of old used salt as a relish, and that they ate salt with their bread is clear from a proverb! but the clearest proof of its importance lies in the fact that no sacrifice is carried out without the mola salsa (salted meal). 