of the kinds of sponges i have spoken when describing the nature of marine creatures. certain authorities classify them thus: some sponges, the males, have little holes, and are more compact and very absorbent; they are also dyed for the luxurious, sometimes even with purple; others, the females, have larger and uninterrupted holes; others, harder than the males, called tragi, have very small holes that are very close together. sponges are whitened artificially. fresh sponges, of the softest kind, are soaked in foam of salt throughout the summer, and then laid open to the moon and hoar-frosts upside down, that is, with the side uppermost that adhered to the rocks, so that they may drink in whiteness. i have said that sponges are animal, being even lined with a coating of blood. some also declare that they are guided by a sense of hearing, and contract at a noise, sending out a great quantity of moisture; that they cannot be torn from the rocks, and therefore are cut off, bleeding sanies. moreover, those growing exposed to the north-east they prefer to others, and physicians declare that nowhere else does their breath last for a longer time. such too, they say, are beneficial to the human body, because they mix their breath with ours; therefore fresh sponges are the more beneficial, as are also the moist, but less beneficial are those soaked in hot water, or those that are oily, or laid on oily bodies, while compact sponges are less adhesive. the softest kind of sponge is that used for bandage-rolls. applied in honey wine these relieve swollen eyes. they are also good for wiping away the rheum of ophthalmia, which they do most efficiently with water. they should be very fine and very soft. sponges themselves are applied in vinegar and water for eye-fluxes, and in warm vinegar for headaches. for the rest, fresh sponges are dispersive, soothing, and emollient; old sponges do not close wounds. the uses of sponges are to be detergent, to foment, and after fomentation to cover until something else is applied. applied also to wet ulcers of senile persons, sponges dry them, and they foment with the greatest benefit fractures and wounds. in surgery sponges quickly absorb the blood, so that treatment can easily be observed. sponges themselves are applied to inflamed wounds, sometimes dry, at other times moistened with vinegar, or wine, or cold water; applied indeed in rainwater to fresh incisions they prevent their swelling. they are also laid on parts that are whole, but suffering from a hidden flux that has to be dispersed, and also on what are called apostemata, after rubbing them with boiled honey; on joints also, sometimes moistened with salted vinegar, sometimes with vinegar and water; should the complaint be attended with fever, water alone is to be used. with salt and water sponges are also applied to callosities, but with vinegar to scorpion stings. in the treatment of wounds sponges with salt and water also act as a substitute for greasy wool; the difference is that wools soften, but sponges are astringent and absorb quickly the diseased humours of ulcers. they are also bound round dropsical parts, either dry or with warm water or vinegar and water, whenever there is need to soothe, or cover a the skin, or dry it. they are applied also for such diseases as need a steamy heat, steeped in boiling water, and pressed between two boards. so applied they are also good for the stomach, and for the excessive burnings of fever; but for the spleen with vinegar and water, while for erysipelas they are with vinegar more efficacious than anything; they should be so placed that there is ample covering for the healthy parts. with vinegar or cold water they arrest haemorrhage, with hot salt and water, often changed, they remove fresh bruises caused by a blow, and with vinegar and water they cure swollen and painful testicles. for dog-bite are applied beneficially with vinegar, cold water, or honey, cut-off pieces of sponge, which must be thoroughly moistened every now and then. the ash of the african sponge, swallowed with the juice of cut-leek, is good for spitting of blood; for other complaints it should be taken in cold water. this ash also, applied to the forehead with oil or vinegar, cures tertian agues. african sponges are specific with vinegar and water for reducing swellings, and the ash of all sponges burnt with pitch arrest haemorrhage from wounds; for this purpose some burn with pitch only sponges of loose texture. for eye remedies sponges are burnt in an unbaked earthenware pot, this ash being very efficacious indeed for roughness or excrescences of the eyelids, and for any complaint in the region of the eyes that needs a remedy detergent, astringent, or expletive, but for this treatment it is better to rinse the ash. they also furnish a substitute for scrapers and towels when the body is diseased. sponges protect also efficiently the head against the sun. in their ignorance physicians have reduced sponges to two classes: the african, which are firmer and harder, and the ithodian, which are softer for fomentations. today however a very soft sponges are found around the walls of antiphellus. trogus informs us that around lycia very soft tent-sponges grow out at sea, in places where sponges have been taken away; polybius that hung over a sick man these give more peaceful nights. now i shall turn my attention to the creatures of the sea. 