equally remarkable is the might of nature in those creatures also which are amphibious, such as the beaver, which they call castor and its testes castoreum. sextius, a very careful inquirer into medical subjects, denies that the beaver himself bites off his own testes when it is being captured; he says that on the contrary these are small, tightly knit, attached to the spine, and not to be taken away without destroying the creature's life. castoreum (beaver-oil) he says is however adulterated by beaver's kidneys, which are large, while the real testes are found to be very small. moreover, they cannot even be the creature's bladders, for they are twin, and no animal has two bladders. in these pouches (he goes on) is found a liquid, which is preserved in salt. accordingly one of the tests of fraud is whether two pouches hang down from one connection, while the liquid itself is adulterated by adding to it cummin and beaver blood or ammoniacum, because the testes ought to be of the colour of ammoniacum, coated with a liquid like waxy honey, with a strong smell, a bitter taste, and friable. the most efficacious castoreum comes from pontus and galatia, the next best from africa. doctors cause sneezing by its smell. it is soporific if the head is rubbed all over with beaver oil, rose oil, and peucedanum, or if by itself it is taken in water, for which reason it is useful in brain fever. it also arouses, by the smell of fumigation, sufferers from coma and hysterical, fainting women, the latter also by a pessary; it is an emmenagogue and brings away the afterbirth if two drachmae are taken in water with pennyroyal. it is also a remedy for vertigo, opisthotonus, palsied tremors, cramps, sinew pains, sciatica, stomach troubles, and paralysis; in all cases by rubbing all over, or ground to the consistency of honey with seed of vitex in vinegar and rose oil. in this form it is taken for epilepsy, but in drink for flatulence, griping and poisons. the only difference in its use for the various poisons lies in the ingredients with which it is mixed. for scorpion bites it is taken in wine; for the phalangium and other spiders in honey wine if it is to be vomited back or with rue if it is to be retained; for the chalcis a with myrtle wine; for the homed asp and prester with panaces or rue in wine; for the bites of other serpents with wine. two drachmae are a sufficient dose, of the other ingredients one drachma. it is specific in vinegar for mistletoe poisoning, in milk or water for poisoning by aconite, for white hellebore in oxymel and soda. it also cures toothache if pounded with oil; it is poured into the ear on the side of the pain; for earache it is better mixed with poppy juice. added to attic honey and used as an ointment it improves the vision. in vinegar it checks hiccoughs. beaver urine, too, counteracts poisons, and therefore is added to antidotes. it is however best preserved, as some think, in the beaver's bladder. 