another equally laborious task involving even greater expense is the incidental operation of previously bringing streams along mountain-heights frequently a distance of 100 miles for the purpose of washing away the debris of this collapse; the channels made for this purpose are called corrugi, a term derived i believe from conrivatio, a uniting of streams of water. this also involves a thousand tasks; the dip of the fall must be steep, to cause a rush rather than a flow of water, and consequently it is brought from very high altitudes. gorges and crevasses are bridged by aqueducts carried on masonry; at other places impassable rocks are hewn away and compelled to provide a position for hollowed troughs of timber. the workman hewing the rock hangs suspended with ropes, so that spectators viewing the operations from a distance seem to see not so much a swarm of strange animals as a flight of birds. in the majority of cases they hang suspended in this way while taking the levels and marking out the lines for the route, and rivers are led by man's agency to run where there is no place for a man to plant his footsteps. it spoils the operation of washing if the current of the stream carries mud along with it: an earthy sediment of this kind is called urium. consequently they guide the flow over flint stones and pebbles, and avoid urium. at the head of the waterfall on the brow of the mountains reservoirs are excavated measuring 200 ft. each way and 10 ft. deep. in these there are left five sluices with apertures measuring about a yard each way, in order that when the reservoir is full the stopping-barriers may be struck away and the torrent may burst out with such violence as to sweep forward the broken rock? there is also yet another task to perform on the level ground. trenches are excavated for the water to flow through - the greek name for them means 'leads'; and these, which descend by steps, are floored with gorse - this is a plant resembling rosemary, which is rough and holds back the gold. the sides are closed in with planks, and the channels are carried on arches over steep pitches. thus the earth carried along in the stream slides down into the sea and the shattered mountain is washed away; and by this time the land of spain owing to these causes has encroached a long way into the sea. the material drawn out at such enormous labour in the former kind of mining is in this latter process washed out, so as not to fill up the shafts. the gold obtained by means of an arrugia does not have to be melted, but is pure gold straight away. in this process nuggets are found and also in the shafts, even weighing more than ten pounds. they are called palagae or else palacurnae, and also the gold in very small grains baluce. the gorse is dried and burnt and its ash is washed on a bed of grassy turf so that the gold is deposited on it. according to some accounts asturia and callaecia and lusitania produce in this way 20,000 lbs. weight of gold a year, asturia supplying the largest amount. nor has there been in any other part of the world such a continuous production of gold for so many centuries. we have stated that by an old prohibiting decree of the senate italy is protected from exploitation; otherwise no country would have been more productive in metals, as well as in crops. there is extant a ruling of the censors relating to the gold mines of victumulae in the territory of vercellae which prohibited the farmers of public revenues from having more than 5000 men engaged in the work. 