juba reports that cinnabar is also produced in carmania, and timagenes says it is found in ethiopia as well, but from neither place is it exported to us, and from hardly any other either except from spain, the most famous cinnabar mine for the revenues of the roman nation being that of sisaponensis in the baetica region, no item being more carefully safeguarded: it is not allowed to smelt and refine the ore upon the spot, but as much as about 2000 lbs. per annum is delivered to rome in the crude state under seal, and is purified at rome, the price in selling it being fixed by law established at 70 sesterces a pound, to prevent its going beyond limit. but it is adulterated in many ways, which is a source of plunder for the company. for there is in fact another kind a of minium, found in almost all silver-mines, and likewise lead-mines, which is made by smelting a stone that has veins of metal running through it, and not obtained from the stone the round drops of which we have designated quicksilver - for that stone also if fired yields quicksilver - but from other stones found at the same time. these have no quicksilver and are detected only by their leaden colour, and only when they turn red in the furnaces, and after being thoroughly smelted they are pulverized by hammering. this gives a minium of second rate quality, which is known to very few people, and is much inferior to the natural sands we have mentioned. it is this then that is used for adulterating real minium in the factories of the company, but a cheaper kind is adulterated with syrian: the preparation of the latter will be described in the proper place; but the process of giving cinnabar and red-lead a treatment of syrian is detected by calculation when the one is weighed against the other. cinnabar also, with red-lead, affords an opportunity for pilfering by painters in another way, if they wash out their brushes immediately when full of paint; the cinnabar or the red-lead settles at the bottom of the water and stays there for the pilferers. pure cinnabar ought to have the brilliant colour of the scarlet kermes-insect, while the shine of that of the second quality when used on wall-paintings is affected by rust, although this is itself a sort of metallic rust. in the cinnabar mines of sisaponensis the vein of sand is pure, without silver. it is melted like gold; it is assayed by means of gold made red hot, as if it has been adulterated it turns black, but if genuine it keeps its colour. i find that it is also adulterated with lime, and this can be detected in a similar way with a sheet of red-hot iron if there is no gold available. a surface painted with cinnabar is damaged by the action of sunlight and moonlight. the way to prevent this is to let the wall dry and then to coat it with punic wax melted with olive oil and applied by means of brushes of bristles while it is still hot, and then this wax coating must be again heated by bringing near to it burning charcoal made of plant-galls, till it exudes drops of perspiration, and afterwards smoothed down with waxed rollers and then with clean linen cloths, in the way in which marble is given a shine. persons polishing cinnabar in workshops tie on their face loose masks of bladder-skin, to prevent their inhaling the dust in breathing, which is very pernicious, and nevertheless to allow them to see over the bladders. cinnabar is also used in writing books, and it makes a brighter lettering for inscriptions on a wall or on marble even in tombs. 