it is a remarkable fact that the art of chasing gold has not brought celebrity to anyone, whereas persons celebrated for chasing silver are numerous. the most famous however is mentor of whom we spoke above. four pairs of goblets were all that he ever made, but it is said that none of them now survive, owing to the burning of the temple of artemis of ephesus and of the capitol. varro says in his writings that he also possessed a bronze statue by this sculptor. next to mentor the artists most admired were acragas, boethus and mys. works by all of these exist at the present day in the island of rhodes - one by boethus in the temple of athena at lindus, some goblets engraved with centaurs and bacchants by acragas in the temple of father liber or dionysus in rhodes itself, goblets with sileni and cupids by mys in the same temple. hunting scenes by acragas on goblets also had a great reputation. after these in celebrity is calamis, and diodorus who was said to have placed in a condition of heavy sleep rather than engraved on a bowl a slumbering satyr for antipater. next praise is awarded to stratonicus of cyzicus, tauriscus, also ariston and eunicus of mitylene, and hecataeus, and, around the period of pompey the great, pasiteles, posidonius of ephesus, hedystracides [or hedys, thracides] who engraved battle scenes and men in armour, and zopyrus who engraved the athenian council of areopagus and the trial of orestes on two goblets valued at 12,000 sesterces. there was also pytheas, one of whose works sold at the price of 10,000 denarii for two ounces: it consisted of an embossed base of a bowl representing odysseus and diomedes in the act of stealing the palladium. the same artist also carved some very small drinking cups in the shape of cooks known as 'the chefs in miniature,' which it was not allowed even to reproduce by casts, so liable to damage was the fineness of the work. also teucer the artist in embossed work attained celebrity, and all of a sudden this art so declined that it is now only valued in old specimens, and authority attaches to engravings worn with use even if the very design is invisible. 