it does not appear that rings were in more common use before the time of gnaeus flavius son of annius. it was he who first published the dates for legal proceedings, which it had been customary for the general public to ascertain by daily enquiry from a few of the leading citizens; and this won him such great popularity with the common people - he was also the son of a liberated slave and himself a clerk to appius caecus, at whose request he had by dint of natural shrewdness through continual observation picked out those days and published them - that he was appointed a curule aedile as a colleague of quintus anicius of praeneste, who a few years previously had been an enemy at war with rome, while gaius poetilius and domitius, whose fathers had been consuls, were passed over. flavius had the additional advantage of being tribune of the plebs at the same time. this caused such an outburst of blazing indignation that we find in the oldest annals 'rings were laid aside.' the common belief that the order of knighthood also did the same on this occasion is erroneous, inasmuch as the following words were also added: 'but also harness-bosses were put aside as well'; and it is because of this clause that the name of the knights has been added; and the entry in the annals is that the rings were laid aside by the nobility, not by the entire senate. this occurrence took place in the consulship of publius sempronius [305 bc] and lucius sulpicius. flavius made a vow to erect a temple to concord if he succeeded in effecting a reconciliation between the privileged orders and the people; and as money was not allotted for this purpose from public funds, he drew on the fine-money collected from persons convicted of practising usury to erect a small shrine made of bronze on the graecostasis which at that date stood above the comitium, and put on it an inscription engraved on a bronze tablet that the shrine had been constructed 204 years after the consecration of the capitoline temple. this event took place in the 449th year from the foundation of the city, and [305 b.c.] is the earliest evidence to be found of the use of rings. there is however a second piece of evidence for their being commonly worn at the time of the second punic war, as had this not been the ease it would not have been possible for the three peeks of rings as recorded to have been sent by hannibal to carthage. also it was from a ring put up for sale by auction that the quarrel between caepio and drusus began which was the primary cause of the war with the allies and the disasters that sprang from it. not even at that period did all members of the senate possess gold rings, seeing that in the memory of our grandfathers many men who had even held the office of prietor wore an iron ring to the end of their lives - for instance, as recorded by fenestella, calpurnius and manilius, the latter having been lieutenant-general under gaius marius in the war [112-106 bc] with jugurtha, and, according to many authorities, the lucius fufidius to whom scaurus dedicated his autobiography - while another piece of evidence is that in the family of the quintii it was not even customary for the women to have a gold ring, and that the greater part of the races of mankind, and even of the people who live under our empire and at the present day, possess no gold rings at all. the east and egypt do not seal documents even now, but are content with a written signature. 