it had originally been the custom to wear rings on one finger only, the one next the little finger; that is how we see them on the statues of numa and servius tullius. afterwards people put them on the finger next the thumb, even in the case of statues of the gods, and next it pleased them to give the little finger also a ring. the gallic provinces and the british islands are said to have used the middle finger. at the present day this is the only finger exempted, while all the others bear the burden, and even each finger-joint has another smaller ring of its own. some people put all their rings on their little finger only, while others wear only one ring even on that finger, and use it to seal up their signet ring, which is kept stored away as a rarity not deserving the insult of common use, and is brought out from its cabinet as from a sanctuary; thus even wearing a single ring on the little finger may advertise the possession of a costlier piece of apparatus put away in store. some again show off the weight of their rings; others count it hard work to wear more than one; and others consider that filling the gold tinsel of the circle with a lighter material, in case of their dropping, is a safer precaution for their anxiety about their gems; others enclose poisons underneath the stones in their rings, as did demosthenes, the greatest orator of greece, and they wear their rings as a means of taking their own lives. finally, a very great number of the crimes connected with money are carried out by means of rings. to think what life was in the days of old, and what innocence existed when nothing was sealed! whereas nowadays even articles of food and drink have to be protected against theft by means of a ring: this is the progress achieved by our legions of slaves - a foreign rabble in one's home, so that an attendant to tell people's names now has to be employed even in the case of one's slaves! this was not the way with bygone generations, when a single servant for each master, a member of his master's clan, marcius's boy or lucius's boy, took all his meals with the family in common, nor was there any need of precautions in the home to keep watch on the domestics. nowadays we acquire sumptuous viands only to be pilfered and at the same time acquire people to pilfer them, and it is not enough to keep our keys themselves under seal: while we are fast asleep or on our death-beds, our rings are slipped off our fingers; and the prevailing system of our lives has begun to centre round that portable chattel, though when this began is doubtful. still it seems we can realize the importance this article possesses abroad in the case of the tyrant of samos, polycrates, who flung his favourite ring into the sea and had it brought back to him inside a fish which had been caught: polycrates himself was put to death about the 230th year of the city of rome. still the [523 bc] employment of a signet-ring must have begun to be much more frequent with the introduction of usury. this is proved by the custom of the lower classes, among whom even at the present day a ring is whipped out when a contract is being made; the habit comes down from the time when there was as yet no speedier method of guaranteeing a bargain, so we can safely assert that with us money began first and signet-rings came in afterwards. about money we shall speak rather later. 