i will now run through the artists who have made works of the same class, such as apollodorus, androbulus and asclepiodorus, aleuas, who have done philosophers, and apellas also women donning their ornaments, and antignotus also man using a body-scraper and the men that slew the tyrant, above-mentioned, antimachus, athenodorus who made splendid figures of women, aristodemus who also did wrestlers, and chariot and pair with driver, figures of philosophers, of old women, and king seleucus; aristodemus's man holding spear is also popular. there were two artists named cephisodotus; the hermes nursing father liber or dionysos when an infant belongs to the elder, who also did a man haranguing with hand uplifted - whom it represents is uncertain. the later cephisodotus did philosophers. colotes who had co-operated with pheidias in the olympian zeus made statues of philosophers, as also did cleon and cenchramis and callicles and cepis; chalcosthenes also did actors in comedy and athletes; daippus a man using a scraper; daiphron, damocritus and daemon statues of philosophers. epigonus, who copied others in almost all the subjects already mentioned, took the lead with his trumpet-player and his weeping infant pitifully caressing its murdered mother. praise is given to eubulus's woman in admiration and to eubulides' person counting on the fingers. micon is noticed for his athletes and menogenes for his chariots and four. niceratus, who likewise attempted all the subjects employed by any other sculptor, did a statue of alcibiades and one of his mother demarate, represented as performing a sacrifice by torch-light. tisicrates did a pair-horse chariot in which piston afterwards placed a woman; the latter also made an ares and a hermes now in the temple of concord at rome. no one should praise perillus, who was more cruel than the tyrant phalaris, for whom he made a bull, guaranteeing that if a man were shut up inside it and a fire lit underneath the man would do the bellowing; and he was himself the first to experience this torture - a cruelty more just than the one he proposed. such were the depths to which the sculptor had diverted this most humane of arts from images of gods and men! all the founders of the art had only toiled so that it should be employed for making implements of torture! consequently this sculptor's works are preserved for one purpose only, so that whoever sees them may hate the hands that made them. sthennis did a demeter, a zeus and an athene that are in the temple of concord at rome, and also weeping matrons and matrons at prayer and offering a sacrifice. simon made a dog and an archer, the famous engraver stratonicus some philosophers and each of these artists made figures of hostesses of inns. the following have made figures of athletes, armed men, hunters and men offering sacrifice: baton, euchir, glaucides, heliodorus, hicanus, jophon, lyson, leon, menodorus, myagrus, polycrates, polyidus, pythocritus, protogenes (who was also, as we shall say later, one of the most famous painters), patrocles, pollis and posidonius (the last also a distinguished silver chaser, native of ephesus), periclymenus, philo, symenus, timotheus, theomnestus, tiniarchides, timon, tisias, thraso. 