bryaxis made statues of asclepius and seleucus, boedas, a man praying, baton, an apollo and a hera, both now in the temple of concord at rome. cresilas did a man fainting from wounds, the expression of which indicates how little life remains, and the olympian pericles, a figure worthy of its title; indeed it is a marvellous thing about the art of sculpture that it has added celebrity to men already celebrated. cephisodorus made the wonderful athene at the harbour of athens and the almost unrivalled altar at the temple of zeus the deliverer at the same harbour, canachus the naked apollo, surnamed philesius, at didyma, made of bronze compounded at aigina; and with it he made a stag so lightly poised in its footprints as to allow of a thread being passed underneath its feet, the 'heel' and the 'toes' holding to the base with alternate contacts, the whole hoof being so jointed in either part that it springs back from the impact. he also made a boys riding on racehorses. chaereas did alexander the great and his father philip, ctesilaus a man with a spear and a wounded amazon, demetrius lysimache who was a priestess of athene for 64 years, and also the athene called the murmuring athene - the dragons on her gorgon's head sound with a tinkling note when a harp is struck; he likewise did the mounted statue of simon who wrote the first treatise on horsemanship. daedalus (also famous as a modeller in clay) made two boys using a body-scraper, and dinomenes did a protesilaus and the wrestler pythodemus. the statue of alexander paris is by euphranor; it is praised because it conveys all the characteristics of paris in combination - the judge of the goddesses, the lover of helen and yet the slayer of achilles. the athene, called at rome the catuliana, which stands below the capitol and was dedicated by quintus lutatius catulus, is euphranor's, and so is the figure of success, holding a dish in the right hand and in the left an ear of corn and some poppies, and also in the temple of concord a leto as nursing mother, with the infants apollo and artemis in her arms. he also made four-horse and two-horse chariots, and an exceptionally beautiful lady with the keys, and two colossal statues, one of virtue and one of greece, a woman wondering and worshipping, and also an alexander and a philip in four-horse chariots. eutychides did a eurotas, in which it has frequently been said that the work of the artist seems clearer than the water of the real river. the athene and the king pyrrhus of hegias are praised, and his boys riding on racehorses, and his castor and pollux that stand before the temple of jupiter the thunderer; and so are hagesias's heracles in our colony of parium, and isidotus's man sacrificing an ox. lycius who was a pupil of myron did a boy blowing a dying fire that is worthy of his instructor, also a group of the argonauts; leochares an eagle carrying off ganymede in which the bird is aware of what his burden is and for whom he is carrying it, and is careful not to let his claws hurt the boy even through his clothes, and autolycus winner of the all-round bout, being also the athlete in whose honour xenophon wrote his banquet and the famous zeus the thunderer now on the capitol, of quite unrivalled merit, also an apollo crowned with a diadem; also lyciscus, the slave-dealer, and a boy, with the crafty cringing look of a household slave. lycius also did a boy burning perfumes. there is a bull-calf by menaechmus, on which a man is pressing his knee as he bends its neck back; menaechmus has written a treatise about his own work. the reputation of naucydes rests on his hermes and man throwing a disc and man sacrificing a ram, that of naucerus on his wrestler winded, that of niceratus on his asclepius and his goddess of health, which are in the temple of concord at rome. pyromachus has an alcibiades driving a chariot and four; polycles made a famous hermaphrodite, pyrrhus, a goddess of health and athene, phanis, who was a pupil of lysippus, a woman sacrificing. styppax of cyprus is known for a single statue, his man cooking tripe, which represented a domestic slave of the olympian pericles roasting inwards and puffing out his cheeks as he kindles the fire with his breath; silanion cast a metal figure of apollodorus, who was himself a modeller, and indeed one of quite unrivalled devotion to the art and a severe critic of his own work, who often broke his statues in pieces after he had finished them, his intense passion for his art making him unable to be satisfied, and consequently he was given the surname of the madman - this quality he brought out in his statue, the madman, which represented in bronze not a human being but anger personified. silanion also made a famous achilles, and also a superintendent exercising athletes; strongylion made an amazon, which from the remarkable beauty of the legs is called the eucnemon, and which consequently the emperor nero caused to be carried in his retinue on his journeys. the same sculptor made the figure rendered famous by brutus under the name of brutus's boy because it represented a favourite of the hero of the battles at philippi. theodorus, who constructed the labyrinth at samos, cast a statue of himself in bronze. besides its remarkable celebrity as a likeness, it is famous for its very minute workmanship; the right hand holds a file, and three fingers of the left hand originally held a little model of a chariot and four, but this has been taken away to praeneste as a marvel of smallness: if the team were reproduced in a picture with the chariot and the charioteer, the model of a fly, which was made by the artist at the same time, would cover it with its wings. xenocrates, who was a pupil of tisicrates, or by other accounts of euthycrates, surpassed both of the last mentioned in the number of his statues; and he also wrote books about his art. 