italy also was fond of making colossal statues. at all events we see the tuscanic apollo in the library of the temple of augustus, 50 ft. in height measuring from the toe; and it is a question whether it is more remarkable for the quality of the bronze or for the beauty of the work. spurius carvilius also made the jupiter that stands in the capitol, after defeating the samnites in the war which they fought under a most solemn oath; the metal was obtained from their breastplates, greaves and helmets, and the size of the figure is so great that it can be seen from the temple of jupiter latiaris. out of the bronze filings left over carvilius made the statue of himself that stands at the feet of the statue of jupiter. the capitol also contains two much admired heads dedicated by the consul publius lentulus, one made by chares above-mentioned and the other by prodicus, who is so outdone by comparison as to seem the poorest of artists. but all the gigantic statues of this class have been beaten in our period by zenodorus with the hermes or mercury which he made in the community of the arverni in gaul; it took him ten years and the sum paid for its making was 40,000,000 sesterces. having given sufficient proof of his artistic skill in gaul he was summoned to rome by nero, and there made the colossal statue, 106 1/2 ft. high, intended to represent that emperor but now, dedicated to the sun after the condemnation of that emperor's crimes, it is an object of awe. in his studio we used not only to admire the remarkable likeness of the clay model but also to marvel at the frame of quite small timbers which constituted the first stage of the work put in hand. this statue has shown that skill in bronze-founding has perished, since nero was quite ready to provide gold and silver, and also zenodorus was counted inferior to none of the artists of old in his knowledge of modelling and chasing. when he was making the statue for the arverni, when the governor of the province was dubius avitus, he produced facsimiles of two chased cups, the handiwork of calamis, which germanicus caesar had prized highly and had presented to his tutor cassius salanus, avitus's uncle; the copies were so skilfully made that there was scarcely any difference in artistry between them and the originals. the greater was the eminence of zenodorus, the more we realize how the art of working bronze has deteriorated. 