the custom of erecting memorial chariots with two horses in the case of those who held the office of praetor and had ridden round the circus in a chariot is not an old one; that of statues on pillars is of earlier date, for instance the statue of honour of gaius maenius who had vanquished the old latins to whom the roman nation gave by treaty a third part of the booty won from them. it was in the same consulship that the nation, after defeating the people of antium, had fixed on the rostra the beaked prows of ships taken in the victory over the people of antium, in the 416th year of the city of rome; and similarly the statue to gaius duillius, who was the first to obtain a naval triumph over the [260 bc] carthaginians - this statue still stands in the forum and likewise that in honour of the prefect of markets lucius minucius outside the porta trigemina, defrayed by a tax of one-twelfth of an as per head. i rather think this was the first time that an honour of this nature came from the whole people; previously it had been bestowed by the senate: it would be a very distinguished honour had it not originated on such unimportant occasions. in fact also the statue of attus navius stood in front of the senate-house - when the senate-house was set on fire at the funeral of publius clodius the base of the statue was burnt with it; and the statue of hermodorus of ephesus the interpreter of the laws drafted by the decemvirs, [451-450 bc] dedicated at the public cost, stood in the comitium of rome. there was different motive and another reason - an important one - for the statue of marcus horatius codes, which has survived even to the present day; it was erected because he had single-handed barred the enemy's passage of the bridge on piles. also, it does not at all surprise me that statues of the sibyl stand near the beaked rostra though there are three of them - one restored by sextus pacuvius taurus, aedile of the plebs, and two by marcus messalla. i should think these statues and that of attus navius, all erected in the period of tarquinius priscus, were the first, [616-579 bc] if it were not for the statues on the capitol of the kings who reigned before him, among them the figures of romulus and tatius without the tunic, as also that of camillus on the rostra. also there was in front of the temple of the castors an equestrian statue of quintus marcius tremulus, wearing a toga; he had twice vanquished the samnites, and by taking anagnia delivered the nation from payment of war-tax. among the very old statues are also those at the rostra of tullus cloelius, lucius roscius, spurius nautius, and gaius pulcinius, all assassinated by the people of fidenae when on an embassy to them. it was the custom for the state to confer this honour on those who had been wrongfully put to death, as among others publius junius and titus coruncanius, who had been killed by teuta the queen of the illyrians. it would seem not to be proper to omit the fact noted by the annals that the statues of these persons, erected in the forum, were three feet in height, showing that this was the scale of these marks of honour in those days. i will not pass over the case of gnaeus octavius also, because of a single word that occurs in a decree of the senate. when king antiochus 4 said he intended to answer him, octavius with the stick he happened to be holding in his hand drew a line all round him and compelled him to give his answer before he stepped out of the circle. and as octavius was killed while on this embassy, the senate ordered a statue to be erected to him 'in the spot most eyed' and that statue stands on the rostra. we also find that a decree was passed to erect a statue to a vestal virgin named taracia gaia or fufetia 'to be placed where she wished,' an addition that is as great a compliment as the fact that a statue was decreed in honour of a woman. for the vestal's merits i will quote the actual words of the annals: 'because she had made a gratuitous present to the nation of the field by the tiber.' 