but we will now turn our attention particularly to the various forms of copper, and its blends. in the case of the copper of cyprus 'chaplet copper' is made into thin leaves, and when dyed with ox-gall gives the appearance of gilding on theatrical property coronets; and the same material mixed with gold in the proportion of six scruples of gold to the ounce makes a very thin plate called pyropus, 'fire-coloured' and acquires the colour of fire. bar copper also is produced in other mines, and likewise fused copper. the difference between them is that the latter can only be fused, as it breaks under the hammer, whereas bar copper, otherwise called ductile copper, is malleable, which is the case with all cyprus copper. but also in the other mines, this difference of bar copper from fused copper is produced by treatment; for all copper after impurities have been rather carefully removed by fire and melted out of it becomes bar copper. among the remaining kinds of copper the palm goes to bronze of campania, which is most esteemed for utensils. there are several ways of preparing it. at capua it is smelted in a fire of wood, not of charcoal, and then poured into cold water and cleaned in a sieve made of oak, and this process of smelting is repeated several times, at the last stage spanish silver lead being added to it in the proportion of ten pounds to one hundred pounds of copper: this treatment renders it pliable and gives it an agreeable colour of a kind imparted to other sorts of copper and bronze by means of oil and salt. bronze resembling the campanian is produced in many parts of italy and the provinces, but there they add only eight pounds of lead, and do additional smelting with charcoal because of their shortage of wood. the difference produced by this is noticed specially in gaul, where the metal is smelted between stones heated red hot, as this roasting scorches it and renders it black and friable. moreover they only smelt it again once whereas to repeat this several times contributes a great deal to the quality. it is also not out of place to notice that all copper and bronze fuses better in very cold weather. 