the greeks by their name for shoemakers'-black have made out an affinity between it and copper: they call it chalcanthon, 'flower of copper'; and there is no substance that has an equally remarkable nature. it occurs in spain in wells or pools that contain that sort of water. this water is boiled with an equal quantity of pure water and poured into wooden tanks. over these are firmly fixed cross-beams from which hang cords held taut by stones, and the kind clinging to the cords in a cluster of glassy drops has somewhat the appearance of a bunch of grapes. it is taken off and then left for thirty days to dry. its colour is an extremely brilliant blue, and it is often taken for glass; when dissolved it makes a black dye used for colouring leather. it is also made in several other ways: earth of the kind indicated is hollowed into trenches, droppings from the sides of which form icicles in a winter frost which are called drop-flower of copper, and this is the purest kind. bat some of it, violet with a touch of white, is called lonchotoa, 'lance-headed.' it is also made in pans hollowed in the rocks, into which the slime is carried by rainwater and freezes, and it also forms in the same way as salt when very hot sunshine evaporates the fresh water let in with it. consequently some people distinguish in twofold fashion between the mined flower of copper and the manufactured, the latter paler than the former and as much inferior in quality as in colour. that which comes from cyprus is most highly approved for medical employment. it is taken to remove intestinal worms, the dose being one dram mixed with honey. diluted and injected as drops into the nostrils it clears the head, and likewise taken with honey or honey-water it purges the stomach. it is given as a medicine for roughness of the eyes, pain and mistiness in the eyes, and ulceration of the mouth. it stops bleeding from the nostrils, and also haemorrhoidal bleeding. mixed with henbane seed it draws out splinters of broken bones; applied to the forehead with a swab it arrests running of the eyes; also used in plasters it is efficacious for cleansing wounds and gatherings of ulcers. a mere touch of a decoction of it removes swellings of the uvula, and it is laid with linseed on plasters used for relieving pains. the whitish part of it is preferred to the violet kinds for one purpose, that of being blown through tubes into the ears to relieve ear-trouble. applied by itself as a liniment it heals wounds, but it leaves a discoloration in the scats. there has lately been discovered a plan of sprinkling it on the mouths of bears and lions in the arena, and its astringent action is so powerful that they are unable to bite. 