the next topic is the nature of lead, of which there are two kinds, black and white. white lead (tin) is the most valuable; the greeks applied to it the name cassheros, and there was a legendary story of their going to islands of the atlantic ocean to fetch it and importing it in platted vessels made of osiers and covered with stitched hides. it is now known that it is a product of lusitania and gallaecia found in the surface-strata of the ground which is sandy and of a black colour. it is only detected by its weight, and also tiny pebbles of it occasionally appear, especially in dry beds of torrents. the miners wash this sand and heat the deposit in furnaces. it is also found in the goldmines called 'alutiae,' through which a stream of water is passed that washes out black pebbles of tin mottled with small white spots, and of the same weight as gold, and consequently they remain with the gold in the bowls in which it is collected, and afterwards are separated in the furnaces, and fused and melted into white lead. black lead does not occur in gallaecia, although the neighbouring country of biscaya has large quantities of black lead only; and white lead yields no silver, although it is obtained from black lead. black lead cannot be soldered with black without a layer of white lead, nor can white be soldered to black without oil, nor can even white lead be soldered with white without some black lead. homer testifies that white lead or tin had a high position even in the trojan period, he giving it the name of cassiteros. there are two different sources of black lead, as it is either found in a vein of its own and produces no other substance mixed with it, or it forms together with silver, and is smelted with the two veins mixed together. of this substance the liquid that melts first in the furnaces is called stagnum; the second liquid is argentiferous lead, and the residue left in the furnaces is impure lead which forms a third part of the vein originally put in; when this is again fused it gives black lead, having lost two-ninths in bulk. 