statues of this kind are still to be found at various places. in fact even at rome and in the municipal towns there are many pediments of temples, remarkable for their carving and artistic merit and intrinsic durability, more deserving of respect than gold, and certainly less baneful. at the present day indeed, even in the midst of our present rich resources the preliminary libation is made at sacrifices not from fluorspar or crystal vessels but with small ladles of earthenware, thanks to the ineffable kindness of mother earth, if one considers her gifts in detail, even though we omit her blessings in the various kinds of corn, wine. fruit, herbs and shrubs, drugs and metals, all the things that we have so far mentioned. nor do our products even in pottery satisfy our needs with their unfailing supply, with jars invented for our wine, and pipes for water, conduits for baths, tiles for our roofs, baked bricks for our house-walls and foundations, or things that are made on a wheel, because of which king numa established a seventh guild, the potters. indeed moreover many people have preferred to be buried in earthenware coffins, for instance marcus varro who was interred in the pythagorean style, in leaves of myrtle, olive and as black poplar; the majority of mankind employs earthenware receptacles for this purpose. among table services samian pottery is still spoken highly of; this reputation is also retained by arezzo in italy, and, merely for cups, sorrento, asti, and pollentia, and by saguntum in spain and pergamum in asia minor. also tralles in asia minor and modena in italy have their respective products, since even this brings nations fame, and their products also, so distinguished are the workshops of the potter's wheel, are carried to and fro across land and sea. in a temple at erythrae even today are on view two wine-jars which were dedicated on account of their fine material, owing to a competition between a master potter and his apprentice as to which would make thinner earthenware. the pottery of cos is most famous for this, but that of adria is most substantial; while there are also some instances of severity also in relation to pottery. we find that quintus coponius was found guilty of bribery because he made a present of a jar of wine to a person who had the right to a vote. and so that luxury also may contribute some importance to earthenware, the name of a service of three dishes, we are told by fenestella, used to denote the most luxurious possible banquet: one dish was of lamprey, a second of pike and a third of a mixture of fish. clearly manners were already on the decline, though nevertheless we can still prefer them even to those of the philosophers of greece, inasmuch as it is recorded that at the auction held by the heirs of aristotle seventy earthenware dishes were sold. we have already stated when on the subject of birds that a single dish cost the tragic actor aesop 100,000 sesterces, and i have no doubt that readers felt indignant; but, good heavens, vitellius when emperor had a dish made that cost 1,000,000 sesterces, and to make which a special furnace was constructed out in open country, as luxury has reached a point when even earthenware costs more than vessels of fluorspar. it was owing to this dish that mucianus in his second consulship, in a protest [ad. 70] which he delivered, reproached the memory of vitellius for dishes as broad as marshes, although this particular dish was not more disgraceful than the poisoned one by which cassius severus when prosecuting asprenas charged him with having caused the death of 130 guests. artistic pottery also confers fame on towns, for instance reggio and cumae. the priests of the mother of the gods called galli castrate themselves, if we accept the account of marcus caelius, with a piece of samian pottery, the only way of avoiding dangerous results; and cacius proposed as a penalty for an abominable offence that the guilty person should have his tongue cut out in the same way, just as if he were already himself inveighing against the same vitellius in anticipation. what is there that experience cannot devise? for it employs even broken crockery, making it more solid and durable by pounding it up and adding what is called signia lime, a kind of material used in a method which experience has also invented for making pavements. 