there are several sorts of white earth. among them there are two sorts of cimolian earth that concern doctors one bright white and one inclining to purple. either is effective for dispelling tumours, and, with vinegar added, for stopping fluxes. they also check swellings and inflammation of the parotid glands, and applied as a liniment, troubles of the spleen and pimples; while if foam-soda and oil of cypros and vinegar are added, they cure swollen feet, provided the treatment is applied in the sun, and the application is washed off again with salt water six hours later. a mixture of this earth with oil of cypros and wax is good for swellings of the testicles. cretaceous earth also possesses cooling properties, and applied in a liniment it stops immoderate sweating, and likewise taken in wine while in a bath it removes pimples. the kind from thessaly is most esteemed, but it is also found in the neighbourhood of bubo in lycia. another use also made of cimolus earth is in regard to cloth. the kind called sarda, which is brought from sardinia, is only used for white fabrics, and is of no use for cloths of various colours; it is the cheapest of all the cimolus kinds; more valuable are the umbrian and the one called 'rock.' the peculiarity of the latter is that it increases in size when it is steeped in liquid; consequently it is sold by weight, whereas umbrian is sold by measure. umbrian earth is only employed for giving lustre to cloths. it will not be out of place to touch on this part of the subject also, as a metilian law referring to fullers still stands, the law which gaius flamiuius and lucius aemilius as censors put forward to be carried in parliament: so careful about everything were our ancestors. the process then is this: the cloth is first washed with earth of sardinia, and then it is fumigated with sulphur, and afterwards scoured with cimolian earth provided that the dye is fast; if it is coloured with bad dye it is detected and turns black and its colour is spread by the action of the sulphur; whereas genuine and valuable colours are softened and brightened up with a sort of brilliance by cimolian earth when they have been made sombre by the sulphur. the 'rock' kind is more serviceable for white garments, after the application of sulphur, but it is very detrimental to colour. in greece they use tymphaea gypsum instead of cimolian earth. 