in rome also honour was fully attained by this art at an early date, inasmuch as a very distinguished clan of the fabii derived from it their surname of pictor, 'painter,' and the first holder of the name himself painted the temple of health in the year 450 from the foundation of the city: the work survived down to our own period, when the temple was destroyed by fire in the principate of claudius. next in celebrity was a painting by the poet pacuvius in the temple of hercules in the forum boarium. pacuvius was the son of a sister of ennius, and he added distinction to the art of painting at rome by reason of his fame as a playwright. after pacuvius, painting was not esteemed as handiwork for persons of station, unless one chooses to recall a knight of rome named turpilius, from venetia, in our own generation, because of his beautiful works still surviving at verona. turpilius painted with his left hand, a thing recorded of no preceding artist. titedius labeo, a man of praetorian rank who had actually held the office of proconsul of the province of narbonne, and who died lately in extreme old age, used to be proud of his miniatures, but this was laughed at and actually damaged his reputation. there was also a celebrated debate on the subject of painting held between some men of eminence which must not be omitted, when the former consul and winner of a triumph quintus pedius, who was appointed by the dictator caesar as his joint heir with augustus, had a grandson quintus pedius who was born dumb; in this debate the orator messala, of whose family the boy's grandmother had been a member, gave the advice that the boy should have lessons in painting, and his late lamented majesty augustus also approved of the plan. the child made great progress in the art, but died before he grew up. but painting chiefly derived its rise to esteem at rome, in my judgement, from manius valerius maximus messala, who in the year 490 after the foundation of the city first showed a picture in public on a side wall of the curia hostilia: the subject being the battle in sicily in which he had defeated the carthaginians and hero. the same thing was also done by lucius scipio, who put up in the capitol a picture of his asiatic victory; this is said to have annoyed his brother africanus, not without reason, as his son had been taken prisoner in that battle. also lucius hostilius mancinus who had been the first to force an entrance into carthage incurred a very similar offence with aemilianus by displaying in the forum a picture of the plan of the city and of the attacks upon it and by himself standing by it and describing to the public looking on the details of the siege, a piece of popularity-hunting which won him the consulship at the next election. also the stage erected for the shows given by claudius pulcher won great admiration for its painting, as crows were seen trying to alight on the roof tiles represented on the scenery, quite taken in by its realism. 