what has already been said must suffice for the cretan labyrinth likewise. the lemnian which was similar to it, was more noteworthy only in virtue of its 150 columns, the drums of which were so well balanced as they hung in the workshop that a child was able to turn them on the lathe. the architects were zmilis, rhoecus and theodorus, all natives of lemnos. there still exist remains of this labyrinth, although no traces of the cretan or the italian now survive. for it is appropriate to call 'italian,' as well as 'etruscan,' the labyrinth made by king porsena of etruria to serve as his tomb, with the result at the same time that even the vanity of foreign kings is surpassed by those of italy. but since irresponsible story-telling here exceeds all bounds, i shall in describing the building make use of the very words of marcus varro himself: 'he is buried close to the city of clusium, in a place where he has left a square monument built of squared blocks of stone, each side being 300 feet long and 50 feet high inside this square pedestal there is a tangled labyrinth, which no one must enter without a ball of thread if he is to find his way out. on this square pedestal stand five pyramids, four at the corners and one at the centre, each of them being 75 feet broad at the base and 150 feet high. they taper in such a manner that on top of the whole group there rests a single bronze disk together with a conical cupola, from which hang bells fastened with chains: when these are set in motion by the wind, their sound carries to a great distance, as was formerly the case at dodona. on this disk stand four more pyramids, each 100 feet high, and above these, on a single platform, five more.' the height of these last pyramids was a detail that varro was ashamed to add to his account; but the etruscan stories relate that it was equal to that of the whole work up to their level, insane folly as it was to have courted fame by spending for the benefit of none and to have exhausted furthermore the resources of a kingdom; and the result, after all, was more honour for the designer than for the sponsor. 