the largest pyramid is made of stone from stone from the arabian quarries. it is said that 360,000 men took 20 years to build it. the time taken to build all three was 88 years and 4 months. the authors who have written about them, namely herodotus, euhemerus, duris of samos, aristagoras, dionysius, artemidorus, alexander polyhistor, butoridas, antisthenes, demetrius, demoteles and apion, are not all agreed as to which kings were responsible for their construction, since chance, with the greatest justice, has caused those who inspired such a mighty display of vanity to be forgotten. some of the writers mentioned record that 1600 talents were spent on radishes, garlic and onions alone. the largest pyramid covers an area of nearly 5 acres. each of the four sides has an equal measurement from corner to corner of 783 feet; the height from ground-level to the pinnacle amounts to 725 feet, while the circumference of the pinnacle is 164 feet. as for the second pyramid, each of its sides from corner to corner totals 7574 feet. the third is smaller than those already mentioned, but on the other hand is far more splendid, with its ethiopian stoned towering to a height of 363 feet along its sloping sides between the corners. no traces of the building operations survive. all around far and wide there is merely sand shaped like lentils, such as is found in most of africa? the crucial problem is to know how the masonry was laid to such a great height. some think that ramps of soda and salt were piled against the structure as it was raised; and that after its completion these were flooded and dissolved by water from the river. others hold that bridges were built of mud bricks and that when the work was finished the bricks were allotted to individuals for building their own houses. for it is considered impossible that the nile, flowing at a far lower level, could have flooded the site. within the largest pyramid is a well 86 cubits deep, into which water from the river is supposed to have been brought by a channel. the method of measuring the height of the pyramids and of taking any similar measurement was devised by thales of miletus, the procedure being to measure the shadow at the hour at which its length is expected to be equal to the height of the body that is throwing it. such are the wonders of the pyramids; and the last and greatest of these wonders, which forbids us to marvel at the wealth of kings, is that the smallest but most greatly admired of these pyramids was built by rhodopis, a mere prostitute. she was once the fellow-slave and concubine of aesop, the sage who composed the fables; and our amazement is all the greater when we reflect that such wealth was acquired through prostitution. 