as we pass from marble to the other remarkable varieties of stone, no one can doubt that it is the magnet that first of all comes to mind. for what is more strange than this stone? in what field has nature displayed a more perverse wilfulness? she has given to rocks a voice which, as i have explained, echoes that of man, or rather interrupts it as well. what is more impassive than the stiffness of stone? and yet we see that she has endowed the magnet with senses and hands. what is more recalcitrant than the hardness of iron? we see that she has bestowed on it feet and instincts. for iron is attracted by the magnet, and the substance that vanquishes all other things rushes into a kind of vacuum and, as it approaches the magnet, it leaps towards it and is held by it and clasped in its embrace. and so the magnet is called by the greeks by another name, the 'iron stone,' and by some of them the 'stone of heracles.' according to nicander, it was called 'magnes' from the name of its discover, who found it on mount ida. incidentally, it is to be found in many places, including spain. however, the story goes that magnes discovered the stone when the nails of his sandals and the tip of his staff stuck to it as he was pasturing his herds. sotacus describes five kinds of magnet: an ethiopian; another from magnesia, which borders on macedonia and is on the traveller's right as he makes for iolcus from boebe; a third from hyettus in boeotia; a fourth from the neighbourhood of alexandria in the troad; and a fifth from magnesia in asia minor. the most important distinction is between the male and female varieties, while the next lies in their colour. those found in the magnesia that is close to macedonia are red and black, whereas the boeotian have more red than black in them. those found in the troad are black and female, and therefore exert no force, while the most worthless kind is that of magnesia in asia minor, which is white, has no power of attracting iron and resembles pumice. it has been ascertained that, the bluer a magnet is, the better it is. the palm goes to the ethiopian variety, which in the market is worth its weight in silver. it is found in the sandy district of ethiopia known as zmiris. there, too, is found the haematite magnet, which is blood-red in colour and, when ground, produces not only blood-red but also saffron-yellow powder. but haematite has not the same property of attracting iron as the magnet. the test of an ethiopian magnet is its ability to attract another magnet to itself. all magnets, incidentally, are useful for making up eye-salves if each is used in its correct quantity, and are particularly effective in stopping acute watering of the eyes. they also cure burns when ground and calcined. also in ethiopia and at no great distance is another mountain, (the ore from) which on the contrary repels and rejects all iron. both of these properties have already been discussed by me on several occasions. 