but this is indeed the moment for us to pass on to the wonders of our own city, to review the resources derived from the experiences of 800 years, and to show that here too in our buildings we have vanquished the world; and the frequency of this occurrence will be proved to match within a little the number of marvels that we shall describe. if we imagine the whole agglomeration of our buildings massed together and placed on one great heap, we shall see such grandeur towering above us as to make us think that some other world were being described, all concentrated in one single place. even if we are not to include among our great achievements the circus maximus built by julius caesar, three furlongs in length and one in breadth, but with nearly three acres of buildings and seats for 250,000, should we not mention among our truly noble buildings the basilica of paulus, so remarkable for its columns from phrygia, or the forum of augustus of revered memory or the temple of peace built by his imperial majesty the emperor vespasian, buildings the most beautiful the world has ever seen? should we not mention also the roof of agrippa's ballot office, although at rome long before this the architect valerius of ostia had roofed a whole theatre for libo's games? we admire the pyramids of kings when julius caesar gave 100,000,000 sesterces merely for the ground on which his forum was to be built, and clodius, who was killed by milo, paid 14,800,000 sesterces (if references to expenditure can impress anyone now that miserliness has become an obsession) just for the house in which he lived. this amazes me for my part just as much as the mad schemes of kings; and therefore i regard the fact that milo himself incurred debts amounting to 70,000,000 sesterces as one of the oddest manifestations of the human character. but at that time elderly men still admired the vast dimensions of the rampart, the substructures of the capitol and, furthermore, the city sewers, the most noteworthy achievement of all, seeing that hills were tunnelled and rome, as we mentioned a little earlier, became a hanging city, beneath which men travelled in boats during marcus agrippa's term as aedile after his consulship. through the city there flow seven rivers meeting in one channel. these, rushing downwards like mountain torrents, are constrained to sweep away and remove everything in their path, and when they are thrust forward by an additional volume of rain water, they batter the bottom and sides of the sewers. sometimes the backwash of the tiber floods the sewers and makes its way along them upstream. then the raging flood waters meet head on within the sewers, and even so the unyielding strength of the fabric resists the strain. in the streets above, massive blocks of stone are dragged along, and yet the tunnels do not cave in. they are pounded by falling buildings, which collapse of their own accord or are brought crashing to the ground by fire. the ground is shaken by earth tremors; but in spite of all, for 700 years from the time of tarquinius priscus, the channels have remained well-nigh impregnable. we should not fail to mention an occasion that is all the more worthy of record because the best-known historians have overlooked it. tarquinius priscus was carrying out the work using the common folk as his labourers, and it became doubtful whether the toil was to be more notable for its intensity or for its duration. since the citizens were seeking to escape from their exhaustion by committing suicide wholesale, the king devised a strange remedy that was never contrived except on that one occasion. he crucified the bodies of all who had died by their own hands, leaving them to be gazed at by their fellow-citizens and also torn to pieces by beasts and birds of prey. consequently, the sense of shame, which is so characteristic of the romans as a nation and has so often restored a desperate situation on the battlefield, then too came to their aid; but this time it imposed upon them at the very moment when they blushed for their honour, since they felt ashamed while alive under the illusion that they would feel equally ashamed when dead. tarquin is said to have made the tunnels large enough to allow the passage of a waggon fully loaded with hay. 