but we must go on to describe marvels which are unsurpassed in virtue of their genuine value. quintus marcius rex, having been ordered by the senate to repair the conduits of the aqua appia, the anio, and the tepula, drove underground passages through the mountains and brought to rome a new water-supply called by his own name and completed within the period of his praetorship. agrippa, moreover, as aedile added to these the aqua virgo, repaired the channels of the others and put them in order, and constructed 700 basins, not to speak of 500 fountains and 130 distribution-reservoirs, many of the latter being richly decorated. he erected on these works 300 bronze or marble statues and 400 marble pillars; and all of this he carried out in a year. he himself in the memoirs of his aedileship adds that in celebration games lasting for 59 days were held, and the bathing establishments were thrown open to the public free of charge, all 170 of them, a number which at rome has now been infinitely increased. but all previous aqueducts have been surpassed by the most recent and very costly work inaugurated by the emperor gaius and completed by claudius, inasmuch as the curtian and caerulean springs, as well as the anio novus, were made to flow into rome from the 40th milestone at such a high level as to supply water to all the seven hills of the city, the sum spent on the work amounting to 350,000,000 sesterces. if we take into careful consideration the abundant supplies of water in public buildings, baths, pools, open channels, private houses, gardens and country estates near the city; if we consider the distances traversed by the water before it arrives, the raising of arches, the tunnelling of mountains and the building of level routes across deep valleys, we shall readily admit that there has never been anything more remarkable in the whole world. one of the most remarkable achievements of the same emperor, claudius, neglected, though it was, by his malicious successor, is, in my opinion at least, the channel that he dug through a mountain to drain the fucine lake. this, i need hardly say, entailed the expenditure of an indescribably large sum of money and the employment for many years of a horde of workers because, where earth formed the interior of the mountain, the water channel had to be cleared by lifting the spoil to the top of the shafts on hoists and everywhere else solid rock had to be cut away, and operations underground (and how vast they were!) had to be carried out in darkness, operations which only those who witnessed them can envisage and no human utterance can describe. incidentally, i must forbear to mention the harbour works at ostia, and likewise the roads driven through hills in cuttings, the moles that were built to separate the tyrrhenian sea from the lucrine lake, and all the bridges erected at such great cost. among the many marvels of italy itself is one for which the accomplished natural scientist papirius fabianus vouches, namely that marble actually grows in its quarries; and the quarrymen, moreover, assert that the scars on the mountain sides fill up of their own accord. if this is true, there is reason to hope that there will always be marble sufficient to satisfy luxury's demands. 