thoughts of this wasteful behaviour distract our attention and force us to leave our intended course, since with this theatre they cause us to associate another, even more frenzied, fantasy in wood. gaius curio, who died during the civil war while fighting on caesar's side, could not hope, in the entertainment which he provided in honour of his father's funeral, to outstrip scaurus in the matter of costly embellishments. for where was he to find a stepfather like sulla or a mother like metella, who speculated by buying up the property of the proscribed, or a father like marcus scaurus, who was for so long a leader in the government and acted for marius and his cronies as their receiver of goods plundered from the provinces? even scaurus himself could no longer have matched his own achievement, for since he had collected his material from all parts of the world, he gained at any rate one advantage from that fire, namely that it was impossible in the future for anyone to emulate his madness. curio, therefore, had to use his wits and devise some ingenious scheme. it is worth our while to be acquainted with his discovery, and so to be thankful for our modern code of morality and call ourselves 'elders and betters,' reversing the usual meaning of the term. he built close to each other two very large wooden theatres, each poised and balanced on a revolving pivot. during the forenoon, a performance of a play was given in both of them and they faced in opposite directions so that the two casts should not drown each other's words. then all of a sudden the theatres revolved (and it is agreed that after the first few days they did so with some of the spectators actually remaining in their seats), their corners met, and thus curio provided an amphitheatre in which he produced fights between gladiators, though they were less in chancery than the roman people itself as it was whirled around by curio. truly, what should first astonish one in this, the inventor or the invention, the designer or the sponsor, the fact that a man dared to plan the work, or to undertake it, or to commission it? what will prove to be more amazing than anything is the madness of a people that was bold enough to take its place in such treacherous, rickety seats. here we have the nation that has conquered the earth, that has subdued the whole world, that distributes tribes and kingdoms, that despatches its dictates to foreign peoples, that is heaven's representative, so to speak, among mankind, swaying on a contraption and applauding its own danger! what a contempt for life this showed! what force now have our complaints of the lives lost at cannae! what a disaster it could have been! when the earth yawns and cities are engulfed, whole communities grieve. here the entire roman people, as if on board two frail boats, was supported by a couple of pivots, and was entertained with the spectacle of its very self risking its life in the fighting arena, doomed, as it was, to perish at some moment or other if the framework were wrenched out of place. and the aim, after all, was merely to win favour for the speeches that curio would make as tribune, so that he might continue to agitate the swaying voters, since on the speaker's platform he would shrink from nothing in addressing men whom he had persuaded to submit to such treatment. for, if we must confess the truth, it was the whole roman people that struggled for its life in the arena at the funeral games held at his father's tomb. when the pivots of the theatres were worn and displaced he altered this ostentatious display of his. he kept to the shape of the amphitheatre, and on the final day gave athletic displays on the two stages as they stood back to back across the middle of the arena. then suddenly the platforms were swept away on either side, and during the same day he brought on those of his gladiators who had won their earlier contests. and curio was not a king nor an emperor nor, indeed, was he particularly rich, seeing that his only financial asset was the feud that had arisen between the heads of state. 