we should not forget to mention that this art is much older than that of painting or of bronze statuary, both of which arose with pheidias in the 83rd olympiad, that is, about 332 years later. it is reported that pheidias himself carved in marble and that the exceptionally beautiful venus in octavia's buildings at rome is his. what is certain is that a pupil of his was the athenian alcamenes, a particularly famous sculptor, several of whose works are to be seen at athens in the temples, while outside the walls there is the celebrated statue of venus, which in greek is known as aphrodite of the gardens. pheidias himself is said to have put the finishing touches to this. another of his pupils was agoracritus of paros, who pleased him, moreover, because of his youthful good looks, and consequently pheidias is said to have allowed him to pass as the author of several of his own works. however that may be, the two pupils competed with each other in making a venus, and alcamenes won the contest, not indeed through his skill, but through the votes of his fellow-citizens, who supported their kinsman at the expense of his foreign rival. consequently, agoracritus is reported to have sold his statue under a proviso that it should not remain in athens, and to have called it nemesis. it was set up within attica in the deme of rhamnus, and marcus varro preferred it to any other statue. in the same township there is also a work by agoracritus in the shrine of the great mother. that pheidias is the most famous sculptor among all peoples who appreciate the fame of his olympian jupiter is beyond doubt, but in order that even those who have not seen his works may be assured that his praises are well-earned shall produce evidence that is insignificant in itself and sufficient only to prove his inventiveness. to do so, i shall not appeal to the beauty of his olympian jupiter or to the size of his minerva [in the parthenon ] at athens, even though this statue, made of ivory and gold, is 26 cubits in height. but rather, i shall mention her shield, on the convex border of which he engraved a battle of the amazons, and on the hollow side combats of gods and giants; and her sandals, on which he depicted combats of lapiths and centaurs. so truly did every detail lend itself to his art. on the pedestal there is carved what is entitled in greek the birth of pandora, with twenty gods assisting at the birth. although the figure of victory is especially remarkable, connoisseurs admire also the snake, as well as the bronze sphinx that crouches just beneath her spear. these are things which should be stated in passing with regard to an artist who has never been praised enough. at the same time, they make us realize that the grandeur of his notions was maintained even in small matters. praxiteles is an artist whose date i have mentioned among those of the makers of bronze statues, but in the fame of his work in marble he surpassed even himself. there are works by him at athens in the cerameicus; and yet superior to anything not merely by praxiteles, but in the whole world, is the venus, which many people have sailed to cnidus to see. he had made two figures, which he put up for sale together. one of them was draped and for this reason was preferred by the people of cos, who had an option on the sale, although he offered it at the same price as the other. this they considered to be the only decent and dignified course of action. the statue which they refused was purchased by the people of cnidus and achieved an immeasurably greater reputation. later king nicomedes was anxious to buy it from them, promising so to discharge all the state's vast debts. the cnidians, however, preferred to suffer anything but this, and rightly so; for with this statue praxiteles made cnidus a famous city. the shrine in which it stands is entirely open so as to allow the image of the goddess to be viewed from every side, and it is believed to have been made in this way with the blessing of the goddess herself. the statue is equally admirable from every angle. there is a story that a man once fell in love with it and hiding by night embraced it, and that a stain betrays this lustful act. in cnidus there are also other marble figures by notable artists, a father liber by bryaxis, a father liber and a minerva by scopas; but there is no greater proof of the excellence of praxiteles' venus than the fact that amidst these works it alone receives mention. to praxiteles belongs also a cupid, with which cicero taunted verres, the famous cupid for the sake of which men visited thespiae, and which now stands in octavia's rooms. to him belongs, moreover, another cupid, which is naked, at parium, the colony on the propontis, a work that matches the venus of cnidus in its renown, as well as in the outrageous treatment which it suffered. for alcetas, a man from rhodes, fell in love with it and left upon it a similar mark of his passion. at rome the works of praxiteles are a flora, a triptolemus and a ceres in the servilian gardens, images of success and good fortune on the capitol, and likewise the maenads, the so-called thyiads and caryatids and the sileni in the collection of asinius pollio, as well as an apollo and a neptune. the son of praxiteles, cephisodotus, inherited also his skill. his persons grappling at pergamum is highly praised, being notable for the fingers, which seem genuinely to sink into living flesh rather than into dead marble. at rome his works are the latona in the temple of the palatine apollo, a venus in the collection of asinius pollio, and the aesculapius and diana in the temple of juno within the portico of octavia. 