among the male stones, moreover, are to be observed some that are clearer than usual or of an unusually dark red glare, and some that shine from deep beneath their surface and blaze with exceptional brilliance in sunlight, while the best are the 'amethyst-coloured stones,' namely those in which the fiery red shade passes at the edge into amethyst-violet, and the next best, known as 'syrtitae,' or 'stones of syrtis,' have a bright feathery lustre. all these stones are said to reveal themselves in ground where sunlight is reflected most powerfully. satyrus asserts that indian 'carbunculi' lack brilliance and look generally flawed, with a 'parched' lustre; and that the ethiopian stones look greasy and shed no lustre at all, but burn with a fire that is compressed within them. callistratus holds that a 'carbunculus' ought to east a brilliant, colourless refulgence, so that when placed on a surface it enhances the lustre of other stones that are clouded at the edges, thanks to its own glowing brilliance. hence many people call such a stone the white 'carbunculus,' and the kind that shines more faintly the 'lignyzon,' or 'murky' stone. callistratus adds that carthaginian 'carbunculi' are much smaller than others, and that the indian stones can be hollowed into vessels holding as much as a pint. archelaus writes that the carthaginian stones have a somewhat swarthy appearance, but light up more intensely than the rest when they are viewed by firelight or sunlight, and at an angle. he mentions also that they appear purple indoors in shadow, and flame-red in the open air; that they sparkle when they are held against the sun, and that, when they are used as signets, they melt the wax, even in a very dark place. many writers state that the indian stones arc brighter than the carthaginian, and that conversely they become dull when viewed at an angle. they add that the male carthaginian stones have a blazing star inside them, while the female stones shed all their radiance externally; and that the 'carbunculi' of alabanda are darker than the rest, and rough. around miletus also, the earth produces stones of the same colour, which are not at all affected by fire. theophrastus assures us that 'carbunculi' are found both at orchomenos in arcadia and in chios, the former, of which mirrors are made, being the darker. according to him, there are variegated stones, interspersed with white spots, from troezen, and likewise from corinth although the white in these corinthian stones is yellowish. he mentions that 'carbuneuli' are imported also from marseilles. bocchus writes that they are dug up too in the neighbourhood of olisipo, but only with great difficulty, because the soil, which is clay, is baked hard by the sun. 