thessaly proper: in thessaly is orchomenus, formerly called the minyan, and the towns of almon, by some called salmon, atrax, and pelinna; the fountain of hyperia; the towns also of pherae, at the back of which is pieria, extending to macedonia, larisa, gomphi, thebes of thessaly, the grove of pteleon, the gulf of pagasa, the town of pagasa, which was afterwards called demetrias, the plains of pharsalia, with a free city of similar name, crannon, and iletia. the mountains of phthiotis are nymphaeus, once so beautiful for its garden scenery, the work of nature; busygaeus, donacesa, bermius, daphusa, chimerion, athamas, and stephane. in thessaly there are thirty-four, of which the most famous are cercetii, olympus, pierus, and ossa, opposite to which last are pindus and othrys, the abodes of the lapithae. these mountains look towards the west, pelion towards the east, all of them forming a curve like an amphitheatre, in the interior of which, lying before them, are no less than seventy-five cities. the rivers of thessaly are the apidanus, the phoenix, the enipeus, the onochonus, and the pamisos. there is also the fountain of messeis, and the lake boebeis. the river peneus too, superior to all others in celebrity, takes its rise near gomphi, and flows down a well-wooded valley between ossa and olympus, a distance of five hundred stadia, being navigable half that distance. the vale, for a distance of five miles through which this river runs, is called by the name of tempe; being a jugerum and a half nearly in breadth, while on the right and left, the mountain chain slopes away with a gentle elevation, beyond the range of human vision, the foliage imparting its colour to the light within. along this vale glides the peneus, reflecting the green tints as it rolls along its pebbly bed, its banks covered with tufts of verdant herbage, and enlivened by the melodious warblings of the birds. the peneus receives the river orcus, or rather, i should say, does not receive it, but merely carries its waters, which swim on its surface like oil, as homer says; and then, after a short time, rejects them, refusing to allow the waters of a river devoted to penal sufferings and engendered for the furies to mingle with his silvery streams. 