ionia: ionia begins at the gulf of iasos, and has a long winding coast with numerous bays. first comes the gulf of basilicum, then the promontory and town of posideum, and the oracle once called the oracle of the branchidae, but now of didymaean apollo, a distance of twenty stadia from the seashore. one hundred and eighty stadia thence is miletus, the capital of ionia, which formerly had the names of lelegeis, pityusa, and anactoria, the mother of more than ninety cities, founded upon all seas; nor must she be deprived of the honour of having cadmus for her citizen, who was the first to write in prose. the river maeander, rising from a lake in mount aulocrene, waters many cities and receives numerous tributary streams. it is so serpentine in its course, that it is often thought to turn back to the very spot from which it came. it first runs through the district of apamea, then that of eumenia, and then the plains of bargyla; after which, with a placid stream it passes through caria, watering all that territory with a slime of a most fertilizing quality, and then at a distance of ten stadia from miletus with a gentle current enters the sea. we then come to mount latmus, the towns of heraclea, also called by the same name as the mountain, carice, myus, said to have been first built by ionians who came from athens, naulochum, and priene. upon that part of the coast which bears the name of trogilia is the river gessus. this district is held sacred by all the ionians, and thence receives the name of panionia. near to it was formerly the town of phygela, built by fugitives, as its name implies, and that of marathesium. above these places is magnesia, distinguished by the surname of the "maeandrian," and sprung from magnesia in thessaly: it is distant from ephesus fifteen miles, and three more from tralles. it formerly had the names of thessaloche and androlitia, and, lying on the sea-shore, it has withdrawn from the sea the islands known as the derasidae and joined them to the mainland. in the interior also is thyatira, washed by the lycus; for some time it was also called pelopia and euhippia. 