aeolis: aeolis comes next, formerly known as mysia, and troas which is adjacent to the hellespont. here, after passing phocaea, we come to the ascanian port, then the spot where larissa stood, and then cyme, myrina, also called sebastopolis, and in the interior, aegae, attalia, posidea, neontichos, and temnos. upon the shore we come to the river titanus, and the city which from it derives its name. grynia also stood here on an island reclaimed from the sea and joined to the land: now only its harbours are left. we then come to the town of elaea, the river caicus, which flows from mysia, the town of pitane, and the river canaius. the following towns no longer exist: canae, lysimachia, atarnea, carene, cisthene, cilla, cocylium, theba, astyre, chrysa, palaescepsis, gergitha, and neandros. we then come to the city of perperene, which still survives, the district of heracleotes, the town of coryphas, the rivers grylios and ollius, the region of aphrodisias, which formerly had the name of politice orgas, the district of scepsis, and the river evenus, on whose banks the towns of lyrnesos and miletos have fallen to decay. in this district also is mount ida, and on the coast adramytteos, formerly called pedasus, which gives its name to the gulf and the jurisdiction so called. the other rivers are the astron, cormalos, crianos, alabastros, and hieros, flowing from mount ida: in the interior is mount gargara, with a town of the same name. again, on the coast we meet with antandros, formerly called edonis, and after that cimmeris and assos, also called apollonia. the town of palamedium also formerly stood here. the promontory of lecton separates aeolis from troas. in aeolis there was formerly the city of polymedia, as also chrysa, and a second larissa. the temple of smintheus is still standing; colone in the interior has perished. to adramyttium resort upon matters of legal business the apolloniatae, whose town is on the river rhyndacus, the erizii, the miletopolitae, the poemaneni, the macedonian asculacae, the polichnaei, the pionitae, the cilician mandacadeni, and, in mysia, the abrettini, the people known as the hellespontii, and others of less note. 