troas and the adjoining nations: the first place in troas is hamaxitus, then cebrenia, and then troas itself, formerly called antigonia, and now alexandria, a roman colony. we then come to the town of nee, the scamander, a navigable river, and the spot where in former times the town of sigeum stood, upon a promontory. we next come to the port of the achaeans, into which the xanthus flows after its union with the simois, and forms the palaescamander, which was formerly a lake. the other rivers, rendered famous by homer, namely, the rhesus, the heptaporus, the caresus, and the rhodius, have left no vestiges of their existence. the granicus, taking a different route, flows into the propontis. the small city of scamandria, however, still exists, and, at a distance of a mile and a half from its harbour, ilium, a place exempt from tribute, the fountain-head of universal fame. beyond the gulf are the shores of rhoeteum, peopled by the towns of rhoeteum, dardanium, and arisbe. there was also in former times a town of achilleon, founded near the tomb of achilles by the people of mitylene, and afterwards rebuilt by the athenians, close to the spot where his fleet had been stationed near sigeum. there was also the town of aeantion, founded by the rhodians upon the opposite point, near the tomb of ajax, at a distance of thirty stadia from sigeum, near the spot where his fleet was stationed. above aeolis and part of troas, in the interior, is the place called teuthrania, inhabited in ancient times by the mysians. here rises the river caicus already mentioned. teuthrania was a powerful nation in itself, even when the whole of aeolis was held by the mysians. in it are the pioniae, andera, cale, stabulum, conisium, teium, balcea, tiare, teuthranie, sarnaca, haliserne, lycide, parthenium, thymbre, oxyopum, lygdamum, apollonia, and pergamum, by far the most famous city in asia, and through which the river selinus runs; the cetius, which rises in mount pindasus, flowing before it. not far from it is elaea, which we have mentioned as situated on the sea-shore. the jurisdiction of this district is called that of pergamus; to it resort the thyatireni, the mosyni, the mygdones, the bregmeni, the hierocometae, the perpereni, the tiareni, the hierolophienses, the hermocapelitae, the attalenses, the panteenses, the apollonidienses, and some other states unknown to fame. the little town of dardanum is distant from rhoeteum seventy stadia. eighteen miles thence is the promontory of trapeza, from which spot the hellespont first commences its course. 