mesopotamia: the whole of mesopotamia formerly belonged to the assyrians, being covered with nothing but villages, with the exception of babylonia and ninus. the macedonians formed these communities into cities, being prompted thereto by the extraordinary fertility of the soil. besides the cities already mentioned, it contains those of seleucia, laodicea, artemita; and in arabia, the peoples known as the orei and the mardani, besides antiochia, founded by nicanor, the governor of mesopotamia, and called arabis. joining up to these in the interior is an arabian people, called the eldamani, and above them, upon the river pallaconta, the town of bura, and the arabian peoples known as the salmani and the masei. up to the gordyaei join the aloni, through whose territory runs the river zerbis, which falls into the tigris; next are the azones, the silici, a mountain tribe, and the orontes, to the west of whom lies the town of gaugamela, as also sue, situate upon the rocks. beyond these are the silici, surnamed classitae, through whose district runs the river lycus on its passage from armenia, the absithris running south-east, the town of accobis, and then in the plains the towns of diospage, polytelia, stratonice, and anthermis. in the vicinity of the euphrates is nicephorium, of which we have already stated that alexander, struck with the favourable situation of the spot, ordered it to be built. we have also similarly made mention of apamea on the zeugma. leaving that city and going eastward, we come to caphrena, a fortified town, formerly seventy stadia in extent, and called the "court of the satraps." it was to this place that the tribute was conveyed; now it is reduced to a mere fortress. thaebata is still in the same state as formerly: after which comes oruros, which under pompeius magnus formed the extreme limit of the roman empire, distant from zeugma two hundred and fifty miles. there are writers who say that the euphrates was drawn off by an artificial channel by the governor gobares, at the point where we have stated that it branches off, in order that it might not commit damage in the city of babylonia, in consequence of the extreme rapidity of its course. the assyrians universally call this river by the name of narmalcha, which signifies the "royal river." at the point where its waters divide, there was in former times a very large city, called agranis, which the persae have destroyed. 