in a similar manner, also, there have been conflicting accounts as to the extent of this country: first by dalion, who travelled a considerable distance beyond meroe, and after him by aristocreon and basilis, as well as the younger simonides, who made a stay of five years at meroe, when he wrote his account of aethiopia. timosthenes, however, the commander of the fleets of philadelphus, without giving any other estimate as to the distance, says that meroe is sixty days' journey from syene; while eratosthenes states that the distance is six hundred and twenty-five miles, and artemidorus six hundred. sebosus says that from the extreme point of egypt, the distance to meroe is sixteen hundred and seventy-five miles, while the other writers last mentioned make it twelve hundred and fifty. all these differences, however, have since been settled; for the persons sent by nero for the purposes of discovery have reported that the distance from syene to meroe is eight hundred and seventy-one miles, the following being the items. from syene to hiera sycaminos they make to be fifty-four miles, from thence to tama seventy-two, to the country of the evonymitae, the first region of aethiopia, one hundred and twenty, to acina fifty-four, to pittara twenty-five, and to tergedus one hundred and six. they state also that the island of gagaudes lies at an equal distance from syene and meroe, and that it is at this place that the bird called the parrot was first seen; while at another island called articula, the animal known as the sphingium was first discovered by them, and after passing tergedus, the cynocephalus. the distance from thence to napata is eighty miles, that little town being the only one of all of them that now survives. from thence to the island of meroe the distance is three hundred and sixty miles. they also state that the grass in the vicinity of meroe becomes of a greener and fresher colour, and that there is some slight appearance of forests, as also traces of the rhinoceros and elephant. they reported also that the city of meroe stands at a distance of seventy miles from the first entrance of the island of meroe, and that close to it is another island, tadu by name, which forms a harbour facing those who enter the right hand channel of the river. the buildings in the city, they said, were but few in number, and they stated that a female, whose name was candace, ruled over the district, that name having passed from queen to queen for many years. they related also that there was a temple of jupiter hammon there, held in great veneration, besides smaller shrines erected in honour of him throughout all the country. in addition to these particulars, they were informed that in the days of the aethiopian dominion, the island of meroe enjoyed great renown, and that, according to tradition, it was in the habit of maintaining two hundred thousand armed men, and four thousand artisans. the kings of aethiopia are said even at the present day to be forty-five in number. 