cases of likeness are indeed an extremely wide subject, and one which includes the belief that a great many accidental circumstances are influential - recollections of sights and sounds and actual sense-impressions received at the time of conception. also a thought suddenly flitting across the mind of either parent is supposed to produce likeness or to cause a combination of features, and the reason why there are more differences in man than in all the other animals is that his swiftness of thought and quickness of mind and variety of mental character impress a great diversity of patterns, whereas the minds of the other animals are sluggish, and are alike for all and sundry, each in their own kind. a man of low station named artemo so closely resembled antiochus [3, 223-187 bc], king of syria, that the royal consort laodice after she had murdered antiochus successfully made use of him to stage a play of her being recommended for succession to the throne. pompey the great had two doubles almost indistinguishable from him in appearance, a plebeian named vibius and one publieius who was actually a liberated slave, both of whom reproduced that noble countenance and the actual dignity of his magnificent brow. a similar resemblance was the reason that saddled pompey's father also with the surname menogenes, that being the name of his cook, when he already had the surname strabo [cross-eyed] from the appearance of his eyes, which actually copied a defect in his slave; and a scipio received the surname serapio in a similar way, serapio being a low chattel belonging to a dealer in hogs. another scipio of a later generation received his name from an actor salutio, just as spinther and pamphilus who played second and third roles respectively gave their names to the colleagues in the consulship lentulus and metellus, a situation which also (most inappropriately) resulted incidentally in the counterfeit presentations of two consuls being seen on the stage at once. vice-versa, lucius plancus, an orator, gave a surname to a player rubrius, whereas burbuleius gave his name to curio senior and likewise menogenes to the former censor messala, both alike being actors. a fisherman in sicily not only resembled the proconsul sara in appearance but actually reproduced his gape while speaking and his tongue-tied stammering utterance. the famous orator cassius severus was taunted for his likeness to the gladiator armentarius. recently in the household of annaeus people used to mistake gallio for the freedman castellanus and the senator agrippinus for the actor sannius, surnamed paris. the slave-dealer toranius sold to antony after he had become one of the triumvirate two exceptionally handsome boys, who were so identically alike that he passed them off as twins, although one was a native of asia and the other of a district north of the alps. later the boys' speech disclosed the fraud, and a protest was made to the dealer by the wrathful antony, who complained especially about the large amount of the price (he had bought them for 200,000 sesterces); but the crafty dealer replied that the thing protested about was precisely the cause of his having charged so much, because there was nothing remarkable in a likeness between any pair of twin brothers, whereas (he said) to find natives of different races so precisely alike in appearance was something above all appraisal; and this produced in antony so convenient a feeling of admiration that the great inflictor of outlawry, who had just been in a fury of threats and abuse, considered that no other property that he possessed was more suited to his station! 