but let us also pass in review the glory of our own countrymen. the elder africanus gave orders for a statue of quintus ennius to be placed on his own tomb, and for that famous name, or rather trophy of war won from a third part of the world, to be read above his last ashes together with the memorial of a poet. his late majesty augustus overrode the modesty of virgil's will and forbade the burning of his poems, and thus the bard achieved a stronger testimony than if he had commended his own works himself. in the library founded at rome by asinius pollio, the earliest library in the world established out of the spoils of war, the only statue of a living person erected was that of marcus varro, the bestowal by a leading orator and citizen of this crowning honour on one only out of the multitude of men of genius then existing constituting no less a distinction, in my own opinion, than when pompey the great gave to that same varro a naval crown for his conduct in the war with the pirates. there is a countless series of roman examples, if one chose to pursue them, since a single race has produced more men of distinction in every branch whatever than the whole of the other countries. but what excuse could i have for omitting mention of you, marcus tullius? or by what distinctive mark can i advertise your superlative excellence? by what in preference to the most honourable testimony of that whole nation's decree, selecting out of your entire life only the achievements of your consulship? your oratory induced the tribes to discard the agrarian law, that is, their own livelihood; your advice led them to forgive roscius the proposer of the law as to the theatre, and to tolerate with equanimity the mark put upon them by a distinction of seating; your entreaty made the children of the men sentenced to proscription ashamed to stand for office; your genius drove catiline to flight; you proscribed mark antony. hail, first recipient of the title of father of the country, first winner of a civilian triumph and of a wreath of honour for oratory, and parent of eloquence and of latium's letters; and (as your former foe, the dictator caesar, wrote of you) winner of a greater laurel wreath than that of any triumph, inasmuch as it is a greater thing to have advanced so far the frontiers of the roman genius than the frontiers of rome's empire. 