but the crocodile constituted too great a plague for nature to be content with a single enemy for it. accordingly dolphins also, which have on their backs a sharp fin shaped like a knife as if for this purpose, enter the mouth of the nile, and when the crocodiles drive them away from their prey and lord it in the river as merely their own domain, kill them by craft, as they are otherwise in themselves no match for them in strength. for all animals are skilful in this, and know not only the things advantageous for themselves but also those detrimental for their enemies, and are acquainted with their own weapons and recognize their opportunities and the unwarlike parts of their adversaries. the crocodile's hide is soft and thin over the belly; consequently the dolphins pretending to be frightened dive and going under them rip the belly with the spine described. moreover there is also a tribe of human beings right on the nile, named after the island of tentyrus on which it dwells, that is hostile to this monster. they are of small stature but have a readiness of mind in this employment only that is remarkable. the creature in question is terrible against those who run away but runs away from those who pursue it. but these men alone dare to go against them; they actually dive into the river and mounting on their back as if riding a horse, when they yawn with the head thrown backward to bite, insert a staff into the month, and holding the staff at both ends with their right and left hands, drive their prisoners to the land as if with bridles, and by terrifying them even merely with their shouts compel them to disgorge the recently swallowed bodies for burial. consequently this island only is not visited by crocodiles, and the scent of this race of men drives them away, as that of the psylli does snakes. this animal is said to have dim sight in the water, but to be very keen-sighted when out of it; and to pass four months of the winter in a cave continuously without food. some persons think that this alone of animals goes on growing in size as long as it lives; but it lives a long time. 