many also of the domestic animals are worth studying, and before all the one most faithful to man, the dog, and the horse. we are told of a dog that fought against brigands in defence of his master and although covered with wounds would not leave his corpse, driving away birds and beasts of prey; and of another dog in epirus which recognized his master's murderer in a gathering and by snapping and barking made him confess the crime. the king of the garamantes' was escorted back from exile by 200 dogs who did battle with those that offered resistance. the people of colophon and also those of castabulum had troops of dogs for their wars; these fought fiercely in the front rank, never refusing battle, and were their most loyal supporters, never requiring pay. when some cimbrians were killed their hounds defended their houses placed on waggons. when jason of lycia had been murdered his dog refused to take food and starved to death. but a dog the name of which duris gives as hyrcanus when king lysimachus's pyre was set alight threw itself into the flame, and similarly at the funeral of king hiero. philistus also records the tyrant gelo's dog pyrrhus; also the dog of nicomedes king of bithynia is recorded to have bitten the king's wife consingis because she played a rather loose joke with her husband. among ourselves the famous vulcatius, cassellius's tutor in civil law, when returning on his cob from his place near rome after nightfall was defended by his dog from a highwayman; and so was the senator caelius, an invalid, when set upon by armed men at placentia, and he did not receive a wound till the dog had been despatched. but above all cases, in our own generation it is attested by the national records that in the consulship of appius julius and publius silius when as a result of the case of germanicus's son nero punishment was visited on titius sabinus and his slaves, a dog belonging to one of them could not be driven away from him in prison and when he had been flung out on the steps of lamentation would not leave his body, uttering sorrowful howls to the vast concourse of the roman public around, and when one of them threw it food it carried it to the mouth of its dead master; also when his corpse had been thrown into the tiber it swam to it and tried to keep it afloat, a great crowd streaming out to view the animal's loyalty. 