alexander also had the good fortune to a great rarity in horseflesh. they called the animal bucephalus, either because of its fierce appearance or from the mark of a bull's head branded on its shoulder. it is said that it was bought for sixteen talents from the herd of philonicus of pharsalus while alexander was still a boy, as he was taken to its beauty. this horse when adorned with the royal saddle would not allow itself to be mounted by anybody except alexander, though on other occasions it allowed anybody to mount. it is also celebrated for a memorable feat in battle, not having allowed alexander during the attack on thebes to change to another mount when it had been wounded; and a number of occurrences of the same kind are also reported, on account of which when it died the king headed its funeral procession, and built a city round its tomb which he named after it! also the horse that belonged to caesar the dictator is said to have refused to let anyone else mount it; and it is also recorded that its fore feet were like those of a man, as it is represented in the statue that stands in front of the temple of venus genetrix. the late lamented augustus also made a funeral mound for a horse, which is the subject of a poem by germanicus caesar. at akragas a great number of horses' tombs have pyramids over them. juba attests that semiramis fell so deeply in love with a horse that she married it. the scythian cavalry regiments indeed resound with famous stories of horses: a chieftain was challenged to a duel by an enemy and killed, and when his adversary came to strip his body of its armour, his horse kicked him and bit him till he died; another horse, when its blinkers were removed and it found out that a mare it had covered was its dam, made for a precipice and committed suicide. we read that an ostler in the reate district was savaged by a horse for the same reason. for horses actually understand the ties of relationship, and a filly in a herd is even fonder of going with a sister a year older than with their dam. their docility is so great that we learn that the entire cavalry of the army of sybaris used to perform a sort of ballet to the music of a band. the sybarite horses also know beforehand when there is going to be a battle, and when they lose their masters mourn for them: sometimes they shed tears at the bereavement. when king nicomedes was killed his horse ended its life by refusing food. phylarchus records that when antiochus fell in battle one of the galatians centaretus caught his horse and mounted it in triumph, but it was fired with indignation and taking the bit between its teeth so as to become unmanageable, galloped headlong to a precipice where it perished with its rider. philistus records that dionysius left his horse stuck in a bog, and when it extricated itself it followed its master's tracks with a swarm of bees clinging to its mane; and that in consequence of this portent dionysius seized the tyranny. 