marcus varro informs us, on his own authority, that the wool on the distaff and spindle of tanaquil (who was also called gala caecilia) was still preserved in the temple of sancus; and also in the shrine of fortune a pleated royal robe made by her, which had been worn by servius tullius. hence arose the practice that maidens at their marriage were accompanied by a decorated distaff and a spindle with thread. tanaquil first wove a straight tunic of the kind that novices wear with the plain white toga, and newly married brides. the pleated robe was the first among those most in favour; consequently the spotted robe went out of fashion. fenestella writes that togas of smooth cloth and of phrygian wool began in the latest times of the late lamented augustus. togas of closely woven poppy-cloth have a an older source, being noticed as far back as the poet lucilius in the case of torquatus. bordered robes found their origin with the etruscans. i find it recorded that striped robes were worn by the kings, and they had embroidered robes as far back as homer, these being the origin of those worn in triumphs. embroidering with the needle was discovered by the phrygians, and consequently embroidered robes are called phrygian. gold embroidery was also invented in asia, by king attalus, from whom attalic robes got their name. weaving different colours into a pattern was chiefly brought into vogue by babylon, which gave its name to this process. but the fabric called damask woven with a number of threads was introduced by alexandria, and check patterns by gaul. metellus scipio counts it among the charges against capito that babylonian coverlets were already then sold for 800,000 sesterces, which lately cost the emperor nero 4,000,000. the state robes of servius tullius, with which the statue of fortune dedicated by him was draped, lasted till the death of sejanus, and it was remarkable that they had not rotted away or suffered damage from moths in 560 years. we have before now seen the fleeces even of living animals dyed with purple, scarlet, crimson ... as though luxury forced them to be born like that. 