in this connexion it is surprising that nature has not only assigned different animals to different countries, but has also denied certain animals to some places in the same region. in the mesian forest in italy dormice of which we are now speaking are only found in one part. in lycia the gazelles do not cross the mountains near the sexi, nor the wild asses the boundary dividing cappadocia from cilicia. the stags on the hellespont do not migrate into unfamiliar districts, and those in the neighbourhood of arginusa do not go beyond mount elaphus, even those on the mountain having cleft ears. in the island of pordoselene weasels do not cross a road. similarly in boeotia moles that undermine the whole of the fields in orchomenus near by, when imported into lebadeia are shy of the very soil. we have seen counterpanes for beds made out of their skins: so powerless is even superstition to protect the miraculous against luxury. in ithaca imported hares die on the very edge of the shore, as do rabbits in iviza, although spain and the balearic islands close by are teeming with them. at cyrene the frogs were silent, and though croaking frogs have been imported from the mainland the silent breed goes on. frogs are also silent in the island of seriphos, but the same frogs croak when removed to some other place, which is also said to happen in the siccanean lake in thessaly. the bite of the shrewmouse in italy is venomous, but the venomous species is not found in the district beyond the apennines. also wherever it occurs it dies if it crosses the track of a wheel. there are no wolves on mount olympus in macedon, nor in the island of crete. in fact in crete there are no wolves or bears either, and no noxious animal at all except a poisonous spider: we shall speak of this species in its place, under the head of spiders. it is more remarkable that in the same island there are no stags except in the district of cydonea, and the same is the case with wild boars and francolins and hedgehogs, while in africa there are neither wild boars nor stags nor wild goats nor bears. 