there is a marvellous neatness in the titles given to books among the greeks. one they entitled κηρίον, meaning honeycomb; others called their kέρας αμαλθείας, i.e. horn of plenty (so that you can hope to find a draught of hen's milk in the volume), and again violets, muses, hold-alls, handbooks, meadow, tablet, impromptu titles that might tempt a man to forfeit his bail. but when you get inside them, good heavens, what a void you will find between the covers! our authors being more serious use the titles antiquities, instances and systems, the wittiest, talks by lamplight, i suppose because the author was a toper — indeed tippler was his name. varro makes a rather smaller claim in his satires a ulysses-and-a-half and folding-tablet. diodorus among the greeks stopped playing with words and gave his history the title of library. indeed the philologist apion (the person whom tiberius caesar used to call 'the world's cymbal,' though he might rather have been thought to be a drum, advertising his own renown) wrote that persons to whom he dedicated his compositions received from him the gift of immortality. for myself, i am not ashamed of not having invented any livelier title. and so as not to seem a downright adversary of the greeks, i should like to be accepted on the lines of those founders of painting and sculpture who, as you will find in these volumes, used to inscribe their finished works, even the masterpieces which we can never be tired of admiring, with a provisional title such as worked on by apelles or polyclitus, as though art was always a thing in process and not completed, so that when faced by the vagaries of criticism the artist might have left him a line of retreat to indulgence, by implying that he intended, if not interrupted, to correct any defect noted. hence it is exceedingly modest of them to have inscribed all their works in a manner suggesting that they were their latest, and as though they had been snatched away from each of them by fate. not more than three, i fancy, are recorded as having an inscription denoting completion — made by so-and-so (these i will bring in at their proper places); this made the artist appear to have assumed a supreme confidence in his art, and consequently all these works were very unpopular. 