for my own part i frankly confess that my works would admit of a great deal of amplification, and not only those now in question but also all my publications, so that in passing i may insure myself against your 'scourges of homer' (that would be the more correct term), as i am informed that both the stoics and the academy, and also the epicureans, - as for the philologists, i always expected it from them - are in travail with a reply to my publications on philology, and for the last ten years have been having a series of miscarriages - for not even elephants take so long to bring their offspring to birth! but as if i didn't know that theophrastus, a mortal whose eminence as an orator won him the title of 'the divine,' actually had a book written against him by a woman - which was the origin of the proverb about 'choosing your tree to hang from'! i am unable to refrain from quoting the actual words of cato the censor applying to this, to show that even the treatise on military discipline of cato, who had learnt his soldiering under africanus, or rather under him and hannibal as well, and had been unable to endure even africanus, who when commander-in-chief had won a triumph, found critics ready for it of the sort that try to get glory for themselves by running down another man's knowledge. 'what then?' he says in the book in question, 'i myself know that if certain writings are published there will be plenty of people to quibble and quarrel, but mostly people quite devoid of true distinction. for my part i have let these persons' eloquence run its course.' plancus also put it neatly, when told that asinius pollio was composing declamations against him, to be published by himself or his children after plancus's death, so that he might be unable to reply: 'only phantoms fight with the dead!' this remark dealt those declamations such a nasty blow that in cultivated circles they are thought the most shameless things extant. accordingly, being safeguarded even against quibble-quarrellers (cato's nickname for them - a neat compound word, for what else do these people do but quarrel or seek a quarrel?) we will follow out the remainder of our intended plan. as it was my duty in the public interest to have consideration for the claims upon your time, i have appended to this letter a table of contents of the several books, and have taken very careful precautions to prevent your having to read them. you by these means will secure for others that they will not need to read right through them either, but only look for the particular point that each of them wants, and will know where to find it. this plan has been adopted previously in roman literature, by valerius soranus in his books entitled lady initiates. 