nearly equally proud and self-conscious are also our roman night-watchmen, a breed designed by nature for the purpose of awakening mortals for their labours and interrupting sleep. they are skilled astronomers, and they mark every three-hour period in the daytime with song, go to bed with the sun, and at the fourth camp-watch recall us to our business and our labour and do not allow the sunrise to creep upon us unawares, but herald the coming day with song, while they herald that song itself with a flapping of their wings against their sides. they lord it over their own race, and exercise royal sway in whatever household they live. this sovereignty they win by duelling with one another, seeming to understand that weapons grow upon their legs for this purpose, and often the fight only ends when they die together. if they win the palm, they at once sing a song of victory and proclaim themselves the champions, while the one defeated hides in silence and with difficulty endures servitude. yet even the common herd struts no less proudly, with uplifted neck and combs held high, and alone of birds casts frequent glances at the sky, also rearing its curved tail aloft. consequently even the lion, the noblest of wild animals, is afraid of the cock. moreover some cocks are born solely for constant wars and battles - by which they have even conferred fame on their native places, rhodes or tanagra; the fighting cocks of melos and chalcidice have been awarded second honours - so that the roman purple confers its high honour on a bird full worthy of it. these are the birds that give the most-favourable omens; these birds daily control our officers of state, and shut or open to them their own homes; these send forward or hold back the roman rods of office, and order or forbid battle formation, being the auspices of all our victories won all over the world; these hold supreme empire over the empire of the world, being as acceptable to the gods with even their inward parts and vitals as are the costliest victims. even their later and their evening songs contain portents; for by crowing all the nights long they presaged to the boeotians that famous victory against the spartans, conjecture thus interpreting the sign because this bird when conquered does not crow. 