of the birds known to us the eagle is the most honourable and also the strongest. of eagles there are six kinds. the one called by the greeks the black eagle, and also the hare-eagle is smallest in size and of outstanding strength; it is of a blackish colour. it is the only eagle that rears its own young, whereas all the others, as we shall describe, drive them away; and it is the only one that has no scream or cry. its haunt is in the mountains. to the second kind belongs the white-rump eagle found in towns and in level country; it has a whitish tail. to the third the morphnos, which homer also calls the dusky eagle, and some the plangos and also the duck-eagle; it is second in size and strength, and it lives in the neighbourhood of lakes. phemonoe, who was styled daughter of apollo, has stated that it possesses teeth, but that it is mute and voiceless; also that it is the darkest of the eagles in colour, and has an exceptionally prominent tail. boethus also agrees. it has a clever device for breaking tortoiseshells that it has carried off, by dropping them from a height; this accident caused the death of the poet aeschylus, who was trying to avoid a disaster of this nature that had been foretold by the fates, as the story goes, by trustfully relying on the open sky. next, the fourth class comprises the hawk-eagle, also called the mountain stork, which resembles a vulture in having very small wings but exceeds it in the size of its other parts, and yet is unwarlike and degenerate, as it allows a crow to flog it. it is always ravenously greedy, and keeps up a plaintive screaming. it is the only eagle that carries away the dead bodies of its prey; all the others after killing alight on the spot. this species causes the fifth kind to be called the' true eagle,' as being the genuine kind and the only pure-bred one; it is of medium size and dull reddish colour, and it is rarely seen. there remains the osprey, which has very keen eyesight, and which hovers at a great height and when it sees a fish in the sea drops on it with a swoop and cleaving the water with its breast catches it. the species that we made the third hunts round marshes for water-birds, which at once dive, till they become drowsy and exhausted, when it catches them. the duel is worth watching, the bird making for refuge on the shore, especially if there is a dense reed-bed, and the eagle driving it away from the shore with a blow of its wing; and when it is hunting its quarry in a lake, soaring and showing its shadow to the bird swimming under water away from the shore, so that the bird turns back again and comes to the surface at a place where it thinks it is least expected. this is the reason why birds swim in flocks, because several are not attacked at the same time, since they blind the enemy by splashing him with their wings. often even the eagles themselves cannot carry the weight of their catch and are drowned with it. the sea-eagle only compels its still unfledged chicks by beating them to gaze full at the rays of the sun, and if it notices one blinking and with its eyes watering flings it out of the nest as a bastard and not true to stock, whereas one whose gaze stands firm against the light it rears. sea-eagles have no breed of their own but are born from crossbreeding with other eagles; but the offspring of a pair of sea-eagles belongs to the osprey genus, from which spring the smaller vultures, and from these the great vultures which do not breed at all. some people add a species of eagle which they call the bearded eagle, but which the tuscans call an ossifrage. 