but this migration of birds of passage over seas and lands does not allow us to postpone the smaller breeds as well that have a similar nature. for however much the size and strength of body of the kinds above mentioned may appear to invite them to travel, the quails always actually arrive before the cranes, though the quail is a small bird and when it has come to us remains on the ground more than it soars aloft; but they too get here by flying in the same way as the cranes; not without danger to seafarers when they have come near to land: for they often perch on the sails, and they always do this at night, and sink the vessels. their route follows definite resting places. they do not fly in a south wind, doubtless because it is damp and rather heavy, yet they desire to be carded by the breeze, because of the weight of their bodies and their small strength (this is the reason for that mournful cry they give while flying, which is wrung from them by fatigue); consequently they fly mostly in a north wind, a landrail leading the way. the first quail approaching land is seized by a hawk; from the place where this happens they always return and try to get an escort, and the tongue-bird, eared-owl and ortolan are persuaded to make the journey with them. the tongue-bird takes its name from the very long tongue that it puts out of its beak. at the start the charm of travelling lures this bird to sail on eagerly, but in the course of the flight repentance comes to it, no doubt with the fatigue; but it does not like to return unaccompanied, and it goes on following, though never for more than one day - at the next resting place it deserts. but day after day the company find another one, left behind in a similar manner the year before. the ortolan is more persevering, and hurries on actually to complete the journey to the lands which they are seeking; consequently it rouses up the birds in the night and reminds them of their journey. the eared owl is smaller than the eagle-owl and larger than night-owls; it has projecting feathery ears, whence its name - some give it the latin name 'axio'; moreover it is a bird that copies other kinds and is a hanger-on, and it performs a kind of dance. like the night-owl it is caught without difficulty if one goes round it while its attention is fixed on somebody else. if a wind blowing against them begins to hold up a flight of these birds, they pick up little stones as ballast or fill their throat with sand to steady their flight. quails are very fond of eating poison seed, on account of which our tables have condemned them; and moreover it is customary to spit at the sight of them as a charm against epilepsy, to which they arc the only living creatures that are liable besides man. 