nightingales pour out a ceaseless gush of song for fifteen days and nights on end when the buds of the leaves are swelling - a bird not in the lowest rank remarkable. in the first place there is so loud a voice and so persistent a supply of breath in such a tiny little body; then there is the consummate knowledge of music in a single bird: the sound is given out with modulations, and now is drawn out into a long note with one continuous breath, now varied by managing the breath, now made staccato by checking it, or linked together by prolonging it, or carried on by holding it back; or it is suddenly lowered, and at times sinks into a mere murmur, loud, low, a bass, treble, with trills, with long notes, modulated when this seems good - soprano, mezzo, baritone; and briefly all the devices in that tiny throat which human science has devised with all the elaborate mechanism of the flute, so that there can be no doubt that this sweetness was foretold by a convincing omen when it made music on the lips of the infant stesichorus. and that no one may doubt its being a matter of science, the birds have several songs each, and not all the same but every bird songs of its own. they compete with one another, and there is clearly an animated rivalry between them; the loser often ends her life by dying, her breath giving out before her song. other younger birds practise their music, and are given verses to imitate; the pupil listens with close attention and repeats the phrase, and the two keep silence by turns: we notice improvement in the one under instruction and a sort of criticism on the part of the instructress. consequently they fetch the prices that are given for slaves, and indeed larger prices than were paid for armour-bearers in old days. i know of one bird, a white one it is true, which is nearly unprecedented, that was sold for 600,000 sesterces to be given as a present to the emperor claudius's consort agrippina. frequent cases have been seen before now of nightingales that have begun to sing when ordered, and have sung in answer to an organ, as there have been found persons who could reproduce the birds' song with an indistinguishable resemblance by putting water into slanting reeds and breathing into the holes or by applying some slight check with the tongue. but these exceptional and artistic trills after a fortnight gradually cease, though not in such a way that the birds could be said to be tired out or to have had enough of singing; and later on when the heat has increased their note becomes entirely different, with no modulations or variations. their colour also changes, and finally in winter the bird itself is not seen. their tongues do not end in a point like those of all other birds. they lay in early spring, six eggs at most. 