the three first and the fifth kinds of eagle have the stone called eagle-stone (named by some gagites) built into their nests, which is useful for many cures, and loses none of its virtue by fire. the stone in question is big with another inside it, which rattles as if in a jar when you shake it. but only those taken from a nest possess the medicinal power referred to. they build their nests in rocks and trees, and lay as many as three eggs at a time, but they shut out two chicks of the brood, and have been seen on occasion to eject even three. they drive out the other chick when they are tired of feeding it: indeed at this period nature has denied food to the parent birds themselves as a precaution, so that the young of all the wild animals should not be plundered; also during those days the birds' talons turn inward, and their feathers grow white from want of food, so that with good reason they hate their own offspring. but the chicks thrown out by these birds are received by the kindred breed, the bearded eagles, who rear them with their own. however the parent bird pursues them even when grown up, and drives them far away, doubtless because they are competitors in the chase. and apart from this a single pair of eagles in order to get enough food requires a large tract of country to hunt over; consequently they mark out districts, and do not poach on their neighbours' preserves. when they have made a catch they do not carry it off at once, but first lay it on the ground, and only fly away with it after first testing its weight. they meet their end not from old age nor sickness but from hunger, as their upper mandible grows to such a size that it is too hooked for them to be able to open it. they get busy and fly in the afternoon, but in the earlier hours of the day they perch quite idle till the market-places fill with a gathering of people. if eagles' feathers have the feathers of any other birds mixed with them, they swallow them up. it is stated that this is the only bird that is never killed by a thunderbolt; this, is why custom has deemed the eagle to be jupiter's armour-bearer. 