we have authorities for saying that woodpigeons live to be thirty and in some cases forty years old, only with the single inconvenience of their claws — this also a sign of old age — which have to be cut to prevent damage. the cooing of all is alike and the same, composed of a phrase repeated three times and then a sigh at the close; in winter they are silent, but begin singing in spring. nigidius thinks that a woodpigeon when sitting on her eggs under a roof will leave her nest in answer to her name. they lay after midsummer. pigeons and turtledoves live eight years. on the other hand the sparrow, their equal in salaciousness, has a very small span of life: the cocks are said not to last longer than a year, the proof being that at the beginning of spring no black colouring is seen on their beak, which begins with summer; but the hens have a rather longer span of life. however pigeons actually possess a certain sense of vanity — you would fancy them to be conscious of their own colours and the pattern of their marking; indeed this can be inferred from their flight — it is observed that they flap their wings in the sky and trace a variety of lines. during this display they expose themselves to the hawk as if fettered, folding their wings with a flapping noise that is only produced from the actual wing joints, though otherwise when flying freely they are much swifter. the highwayman hawk watches concealed in foliage, and seizes the exultant pigeon in the very act of showing off. for that reason the bird called kestrel must be classed with these; for it defends the pigeons, and scares the hawks by its natural powerfulness so much that they fly from sight and sound of it. for this reason woodpigeons have a special love for kestrels, and they say that if kestrels put in new jars with their mouths sealed up are hidden in the four corners of the dovecot the pigeons do not change their abode (a result that some people have also sought to obtain by cutting the joints of their wings with gold, the only way of making a wound that does no harm), although otherwise the pigeon is a bird much given to straying. for they have a trick of exchanging blandishments and enticing other pigeons and coming back with a larger company won by intrigue. 