aristotle thinks that only animals with lungs and windpipe, that is those that breathe, possess a voice; and that consequently even insects make a sound, but have not a voice, the breath passing inside them and making a sound when shut up there, and that some, as bees, give out a buzz, others, as grasshoppers, a brief hiss, because the breath is received in two hollows under the chest and encountering a movable membrane inside makes a sound by rubbing against it. he thinks that flies, bees and other similar creatures begin and cease to give an audible sound when they begin and cease to fly, as the sound is caused by friction and by the air inside them, not by breathing; and that locusts make a sound by rubbing their wings against their thighs. it is indeed believed that among aquatic creatures scallops similarly make a rushing sound when they fly, but that shell-fish and crustaceans have no voice nor sound of any kind. but the other fishes, although they lack lungs and windpipe, are not entirely devoid of any sound at all — people advance the quibble that their hiss is made with the teeth — and the fish in the river achelous called the boar-fish has a grunt, and so have others about which we have spoken. oviparous species have a hiss — snakes a long one, tortoises an abrupt one. frogs have a special kind of voice, as has been said unless in their case also we are to allow some uncertainty, because 'voice' means a sound formed in the month, not in the chest. still in the case of frogs the nature of the localities also makes a great deal of difference: the frogs in macedonia are reported to be dumb, and also the boars. among birds the smaller ones are more talkative, and particularly at the mating season. some birds, e.g. quails, give a cry when fighting, others, e.g. partridges, before a fight, others, e.g. domestic fowls, when they have won. with the latter the cocks have a crow of their own, but with other birds, for instance the nightingale class, the hens also have the same note. some birds sing all the year, some at certain seasons, as has been said in dealing with the species separately. the elephant squeezes out a sound like a sneeze from its actual mouth, not through the nostrils, but through the nostrils it emits a harsh trumpet sound. in oxen alone the lowing of the females is louder, but in every other kind of animal the females' voice is not so loud as that of the males, even (in the case of the human race) those that have been castrated. the infant gives no sound at birth until it emerges entirely from the womb. it begins to talk when a year old; but croesus had a son who spoke at six months and while still at the rattle stage, a portent that brought the whole of that realm to downfall. infants that began to speak quicker are slower in starting to walk. the voice gets stronger at fourteen, but it gets weaker in old age; and it does not alter more often in any other animal. 