the life-history of the cicada is similar. of this there are two kinds: the smaller ones that come out first and perish latest — these however are mute; subsequent is the flight of those that sing: they are called singers, and the smaller ones among them grass-hoppers, but the former are more vocal. the males in either class sing, but the females are silent. these creatures are used as food by the eastward races, even the parthians with their abundant resources; they prefer the males before mating and the females afterwards, being seduced by their eggs, which are white. they couple lying on their backs. they have a very sharp prickliness on the back, with which they hollow a place in the ground for their offspring. this is produced first as a grub, and then from this comes what is called the larva; at the period of the solstices they break the shell of this and fly out, always at night; at first they are black and hard. this is the only living creature actually without a mouth; they have instead a sort of row of prickles resembling tongues, this also being on the breast, with which they lick the dew. the breast itself forms a pipe; the singers use this to sing with, as we shall say. for the rest, there is nothing on the belly. when they are disturbed and fly away, they give out moisture, which is the only proof that they live on dew; moreover they are the only creatures that have no aperture for the bodily excreta. their eyes are so dim that if anybody comes near to them contracting and straightening out a finger, they pass by as if it were a leaf flickering. some people make two other classes of tree-crickets, the twig-cricket which is the larger, and the corn-cricket, which others call the oat-cricket, because it appears at the same time as the crops begin to dry. tree-crickets do not occur where trees are scarce — consequently they are not found at cyrenae except in the neighbourhood of the town — nor in plains or in chilly or shady woods. these creatures also make some difference between localities; in the district of miletus they occur in few places, but there is a river in cephallania which makes a boundary with a few of them on one side and many on the other; again in the reggio territory they are all silent but beyond the river in the region of locri they sing. they have the same wing-structure as bees, but larger in proportion to the body. 