land scorpions also like spiders produce grubs resembling eggs and die in the same way as spiders; they are a horrible plague, poisonous like snakes, except that they inflict a worse torture by despatching the victim with a lingering death lasting three days, their wound being always fatal to girls and almost absolutely so to women, but to men only in the morning, when they are coming out of their holes, before they emit their yet unsated poison by some accidental stroke. their tail is always engaged in striking and does not stop practising at any moment, lest it should ever miss an opportunity; it strikes both a sideway stroke and one with the tail bent up. apollodorus states that these insects emit a white poison, and he divides them into nine kinds, chiefly by their colours, a superfluous task, since he does not let us know which he pronounces to be the least deadly. he says that some have a pair of stings, and that the males are fiercest — for he attributes coupling to these creatures — but that they can be recognized by their long slender shape; and that all are poisonous at midday, when they have got hot from the warmth of the sun, and also that when they are thirsty they cannot have their fill of drinking. it is also agreed that those with six joints in the tail are more savage — for the majority have five. this curse of africa is actually given the power of flight by a south wind, which supports their arms when they spread them out like oars; apollodorus before mentioned definitely states that some possess wings. the psylli tribe, who by importing the poisons of all the other countries for their own profit have filled italy with foreign evils, have tried to bring these creatures here also, but they have proved unable to live this side of the climate of sicily. nevertheless they are sometimes seen in italy, though these are harmless, and in many other places, for instance in the neighbourhood of pharos in egypt. in scythia they kill even pigs, which normally are exceptionally immune to such poisons, black pigs indeed more quickly, if they plunge into water. for a human victim the ashes of the creatures themselves drunk in wine are thought to be a cure. it is thought that to be dipped in oil is a great disaster to geckoes as well as scorpions; but geckoes at least are harmless; these too are bloodless, and are shaped like a lizard; equally scorpions are believed to do no harm whatever to any bloodless creatures. some think that they also devour their own offspring, and that only one is left, a specially clever one that by perching on his mother's haunches secures himself by this position against both her tail and her bite; and that this one is the avenger of the rest, as he finally kills their parent with a blow from above. they are produced in broods of eleven. 