moreover some people have long sight. but others can only see things brought close to them. the sight of many depends on the brilliance of the sun, and they cannot see clearly on a cloudy day or after sunset; others have dimmer sight in the day time but are exceptionally keen-sighted at night. we have already said enough about double pupils, or persons who have the evil eye. blue-grey eyes see more clearly in the dark. it is stated that tiberius caesar alone of all mankind was so constituted that if he woke up in the night for a short time he could see everything just as in bright daylight, although darkness gradually closed over him. the late lamented augustus had grey eyes like those of horses, the whites being larger than usual in a human being, on account of which he used to be angry if people watched his eyes too closely; claudius caesar's eyes were frequently bloodshot and had a fleshy gleam at the corners; the emperor gaius had staring eyes; nero's eyes were dull of sight except when he screwed them up to look at objects brought close to them. in the training-school of the emperor gaius there were 20,000 gladiators, among whom there were only two that did not blink when faced by some threat of danger and were consequently unconquerable: so difficult it is for a human being to stare steadily, whereas for most people it is natural to keep on blinking, and these are traditionally supposed to be more cowardly. nobody has eyes of only one colour: with everyone the general surface is white but there is a different colour in the middle. no other part of the body supplies greater indications of the mind - this is so with all animals alike, but specially with man - that is, indications of self-restraint, mercy, pity, hatred, love, sorrow, joy. the eyes are also very varied in their look - fierce, stern, sparkling, sedate, leering, askance, downcast, kindly: in fact the eyes are the abode of the mind. they glow, stare, moisten, wink; from them flows the tear of compassion, when we kiss them we seem to reach the mind itself, they are the source of tears and of the stream that bedews the cheek. what is the nature of this moisture that at a moment of sorrow flows so copiously and so promptly? or where is it in the remaining time? in point of fact it is the mind that is the real instrument of sight and of observation; the eyes act as a sort of vessel receiving and transmitting the visible portion of the consciousness. this explains why deep thought blinds the eyes by withdrawing the vision inward, and why when the mind is clouded during an attack of epilepsy the eyes though open discern nothing. moreover hares sleep with the eyes wide open, and so do many human beings while in the condition which the greeks term 'corybantic.' 