the horny skin in the centre of the eye nature has furnished with the pupil as a window, the narrow opening of which does not allow the gaze to roam uncertain, but so to speak canalizes its direction, and easily averts objects that encounter it on the way; the pupil is surrounded with circles which with some people are coloured black, with others grey and with others blue, so that the light from the surrounding radiance both may be received in a suitable blend and having its reflexion moderated may not be jarring; and the efficacy of the mirror is made so perfect by these means that the small pupil can reflect the entire image of a human being. this is the reason why commonly birds when released from men's hands go first of all for their eyes, because they see their own likeness reflected in them and try to reach as it were a desired object that is akin to themselves. beasts of burden only experience diseases at certain phases of the moon. man alone is cured of blindness by the emission of fluid from the eye. many have had their sight restored after 20 years of blindness; some have been blind at birth owing to no defect in the eyes; similarly, many have suddenly lost their sight without any previous injury. the most learned authorities state that the eyes are connected with the brain by a vein; for my own part i am inclined to believe that they are also thus connected with the stomach: it is unquestionable that a man never has an eye knocked out without vomiting. there is a solemn ritual custom among roman citizens to close the eyes of the dying and to open them again on the funeral pyre, custom having established that it is not right for the eyes to be seen by a human being at the last moment and also wrong for them not to be displayed to the heavens. man is the only animal whose eyes are liable to distortion, which is the origin of the family names squint-eye and blinky. from the eyes also came the name of one-eye that used to be given to persons born blind in one eye, and that of eyelet given to persons both of whose eyes were small; the one-eye family a received the name of an injury done to one of them. the eyes of night-roaming animals like cats shine and flash in the dark so that one cannot look at them, and those of the wild-goat and the wolf gleam and shoot out light; the eyes of the sea-calf and of the hyena change frequently into a thousand colours; moreover those of many fishes shine out even in the dark, like oak-tree stumps when dry and rotten with age. we have stated that creatures that do not direct their gaze by slanting the eyes but by turning the head round do not wink. it is reported that the chameleon's eyes turn themselves entirely round. crabs look sideways, having their eyes enclosed in a fragile shell. lobsters and shrimps mostly have very hard eyes projecting under a protection of the same kind. creatures with hard eyes have less keen sight than those whose eyes are moist. it is stated that if one removes the eyes of young snakes and swallow chicks, they grow again. the eyes of all insects and of creatures with a covering of shell move like the ears of quadrupeds. those with fragile coverings have hard eyes. all such creatures, and also fish and insects, have no eyelids and do not close their eyes; withal the eye is covered with a membrane that is transparent like glass. 