not all species have tongues on the same plan. with snakes the tongue is extremely slender and three-forked, darting, black in colour, and if drawn out to full length extremely long; with lizards it is cleft in two and hairy, and with seals also it is double; but with the species above mentioned it is of the fineness of a hair. with the rest it is available for licking round the jaws, but with fish it adheres through a little less than its whole length, and with crocodiles the whole of it. in aquatic species on the other hand the fleshy palate serves instead of the tongue in tasting. with lions, leopards, and all the species of that genus, even cats, the tongue is rough and corrugated like a file, and can scrape away the human skin by licking, which provokes even those that have been tamed to madness when their saliva gets through to the blood. we have spoken of the tongues of the purple-fishes. in frogs the tip of the tongue is attached but the inner part is loose from the throat; it is with this that the males croak, at the time when they are called croakers; this happens at a fixed season, when they are calling the females to mate. in this process they just drop the lower lip and take into the throat a moderate amount of water and let the tongue vibrate in it so as to make it undulate, and a croaking sound is forced out; during this the curves of the cheeks are distended and become transparent, and the eyes stand out blazing with the exertion. creatures with stings in their hinder part have teeth and a tongue as well, bees even a very long tongue, and cicalas also a projecting one; but those with a tubular sting in the mouth have neither tongue nor teeth. some insects have a tongue inside the month, for instance ants; moreover, the elephant's tongue also is particularly little visible. with the rest of the animals according to theft kind the tongue is always quite free, but with man alone it is often so tightly bound by veins that they have to be cut. we find it recorded that the high priest metellus was so tongue-tied that he is believed to have suffered torture for many months while practising the formula to be spoken in dedicating the temple of wealth; but in all other cases of stammering the patient usually contrives to speak distinctly after reaching the age of six. many people on the other hand are endowed with such skill in using the tongue that they can give imitations of the cries of birds and animals that are indistinguishable from the real thing. with all the other species the tip of the tongue is the seat of taste, but with man this is also situated in the palate. 