from this abdomen start in the sheep and in man the smaller intestines through which the food passes, and in the other species the entrails, from which the roomier intestines pass to the belly, and in the case of man in extremely winding coils. on this account species in which the distance from the belly is longer arc greedier for food; moreover those with a very fat abdomen are less clever. birds also in some eases have two receptacles, one down which food just eaten passes to the throat, the other into which they pass the food from the throat when digested - e.g. hens, ring-doves, pigeons and partridges. almost all the other species in most cases have not got this, but make use of a more widely opened gullet, for instance jays, ravens and crows. some species treat the food in neither manner, but have the abdomen very near; these are species that have specially long and narrow necks, for instance the sultana-hen. the abdomen of whole-hoofed annuals is rough and hard. in that of some land animals the roughness is denticulated, and in that of others it has a latticed bite. species that are without teeth in both jaws and that do not ruminate digest their food here and pass it down from here into the belly. this in all species is attached at its middle to the navel; in man at its lower part it resembles the belly of a pig; the greeks call it the colon; it is the seat of a great cause of pain. in dogs it is extremely narrow, and for this reason they can only relieve it with a violent effort and not without severe pain. the most ravenous animals are those in whom the food passes directly from the abdomen right down the gut; this is the case with lynxes, and among birds cormorants. the elephant has four abdomens, but its other parts resemble those of pigs; its lungs are four times as large as those of an ox. birds have a fleshy and hard abdomen. in the abdomen of swallow chicks there are found white or red coloured pebbles, called swallow-stones; there are accounts of these in the treatises on magic. also in the second abdomen of heifers is found a round ball of blackish tufa that weighs nothing; this is thought to be a sovereign remedy for difficulty in childbirth if it has never been allowed to touch the ground. 