the myrrh-producing tree also is tapped twice a year at the same seasons as the frankincense-tree, but in its case the incisions are made all the way up from the root to those of the branches that are strong enough to bear it. but before it is tapped the tree exudes of its own accord a juice called staete, which is the most highly valued of all myrrh. next after this comes the cultivated kind, and also the better variety of the wild kind, the one tapped in summer. no tithes are given to a god from myrrh, as it also grows in other countries; however, the growers have to pay a quarter of the yield to the king of the gebbanitae. for the rest it is bought up all over the district from the common people and packed into leather bags; and our perfumiers have no difficulty in distinguishing the different sorts by the evidence of the scent and consistency. there are a great many varieties, the first among the wild kinds being the cave-dweller myrrh, next the minaean, which includes the astramitic, gebbanitic and ausaritic from the kingdom of the gebbanitae; the third quality is the dianite, the fourth a mixture from various sources, the fifth the sambracene from a seaboard state in the kingdom of the sabaei, and the sixth the one called dusirite. there is also a white kind found in one place only, which is brought into the town of mesalum for sale. the cave-dweller kind is distinguished by its thickness and because it is rather dry and dusty and foreign in appearance, but has a stronger scent than the other sorts. the sambracene variety is advertised as surpassing other kinds in its agreeable quality, but it has not a strong scent. broadly speaking, however, the proof of goodness is given by its being in small pieces of irregular shape, forming in the solidifying of the juice as it turns white and dries up, and in its showing white marks like fingernails when it is broken, and having a slightly bitter taste. the second best kind is mottled inside, and the worst is the one that is black inside; and if it is black outside as well it is of a still inferior quality. 