next in affinity to cardamomum would have come cinnamomum, were it not convenient first to catalogue the riches of arabia and the reasons that have given it the names of happy and blessed. the chief products of arabia then are frankincense and myrrh; the latter it shares also with the cave-dweller country, but no country beside arabia produces frankincense, and not even the whole of arabia. about in the middle of that country are the astramitae, a district of the sabaei, the capital of their realm being sabota, situated on a lofty mountain; and eight days' journey from sabota is a frankincense-producing district belonging to the sabaei called sariba - according to the greeks the name means 'secret mystery.' the region faces north-east, and is surrounded by impenetrable rocks, and on the right hand side bordered by a seacoast with inaccessible cliffs. the soil is reported to be of a milky white colour with a tinge of red. the forests measure 20 schoeni in length and half that distance in breadth - by the calculation of eratosthenes a schoenus measures 40 furlongs, that is five miles, but some authorities have made the schoenus 32 furlongs. there are hills rising to a great height, with natural forests on them running right down to the level ground. it is generally agreed that the soil is clay, and that there are few springs and these charged with alkali. adjacent to the astramitae is another district, the minaei, through whose territory the transit for the export of the frankincense is along one narrow track. it was these people who originated the trade and who chiefly practise it, and from them the perfume takes the name of minaean; none of the arabs beside these have ever seen an incense-tree, and not even all of these, and it is said that there are not more than 3000 families who retain the right of trading in it as a hereditary property, and that consequently the members of these families are called sacred, and are not allowed to be polluted by ever meeting women or funeral processions when they are engaged in making incisions in the trees in order to obtain the frankincense, and that in this way the price of the commodity is increased owing to scruples of religion. some persons report that the frankincense in the forests belongs to all these peoples in common, but others state that it is shared out among them in yearly turns. 