casia also is a shrub, and it grows close to the plains of cinnamon, but on the mountains; it has thicker stalks, and a thin skin rather than bark, which, in the opposite way to what we said in the case of cinnamon gains value when it falls off and thins away. this shrub grows to a height of 4 1/2 feet and it has three colours: when it first sprouts up, to the length of a foot it is white, then for the next six inches it is reddish, and beyond that point it is black. the black part is most highly esteemed, and next the part nearest to it, but the white part has no value at all. they cut the shoots to the length of two inches, and then sew them up in newly flayed hides of animals slaughtered for the purpose, so that as they rot maggots may gnaw away the wood and hollow out the whole of the bark, which is protected from them by its bitter taste. the bark is valued most highly when fresh, when it has a very pleasant smell and is hardly at all hot to the taste, and rather gives a slight nip with its moderate warmth; it must be of a purple colour, and though bulky weigh very little, and the pores of the outer coats should be short and not liable to break. this kind of casia is called by a foreign name, lada. another kind is near-balsam, so called because it has a scent like that of balsam, but it has a bitter taste and consequently is more useful for medicinal purposes. just as the black kind is more employed for unguents. no substance has a wider range of price — the best qualities sell at 50 denarii a pound and the others at 5. to these varieties the dealers have added one which they call daphnis's casia, with the further designation of near-cinnamon, and they price it at 300 denarii. it is adulterated with styrax, and with very small sprigs of bay because of the similarity of the barks. it is also grown in our part of the world, and i have seen it on the extreme edge of our empire, where the rhine washes our frontier, planted among beehives; but there it has not the scorched colour produced by the sun, and for the same reason also it has not the same scent as the southern product. 