there are three varieties of balsam-tree: one with thin foliage like hair, called easy-to-gather; another with a rugged appearance, curving over, of a bushy growth and with a stronger scent — they call this rough balsam, and the third tall balsam because it grows higher than the rest; this has a smooth bark. this last is the second best in quality, and the easy-to-gather kind is the lowest grade. balsam-seed tastes very like wine, and has a red colour and a rather greasy consistency; that contained in a husk, which is lighter in weight and greener in colour, is inferior. the branch is thicker than of that of a myrtle; incision is made in it with a piece of glass or a stone, or with knives made of bone — it strongly dislikes having its vital parts wounded with steel, and dies off at once, though it can stand having superfluous branches pruned with a steel knife. the hand of the operator making the incision has to be poised under skilful control, to avoid inflicting a wound going below the bark. the juice that oozes out of the incision is called opobalsamum; it is extremely sweet in taste, but exudes in tiny drops, the trickle being collected by means of tufts of wool in small horns and poured out of them into a new earthenware vessel to store; it is like rather thick olive-oil and in the unfermented state is white in colour; later on it turns red and at the same time hardens, having previously been transparent. when alexander the great was campaigning in that country, it was considered a fair whole day's work in summer to fill a single shell, and for the entire produce of a rather large garden to be six congii and of a smaller one congius, at a time moreover when its price was twice its weight in silver: whereas at the present day even a single tree produces a larger flow. the incision is made three times in every summer, and afterwards the tree is lopped. there is a market even for the twigs too; within five years of the conquest of judea the actual loppings and the shoots fetched 800,000 sesterces. these trimmings are called wood of balsam; they are boiled down in perfumes, and in manufacture they have taken the place of the actual juice of the shrub. even the bark fetches a price for drugs; but the tears are valued most, the seed coming second, the bark third and the wood lowest. of the wood the sort resembling boxwood is the best, and also has the strongest scent; the best seed is that which is largest in size and heaviest in weight, which has a biting taste and is hot in the mouth. balsam is adulterated with the ground-pine of petra, which can be detected by its size, hollowness and long shape and by its weak scent and its taste like pepper. the test of tear of balsam is that it should be thinning out in consistency, and slightly reddish, and give a strong scent when rubbed. the second quality is white in colour, the next inferior is green and thick, and the worst kind black, inasmuch as like olive oil it deteriorates with age. out of all the incisions the oil that has flowed out before the formation of the seed is considered the best. also another mode of adulteration is by using the juice of the seed, and the fraud can be with difficulty detected by the greater bitterness of the taste; for the proper taste is smooth, without a trace of acidity, the only pungency being in the smell. it is also adulterated with oil of roses, of cyprus, of mastich, of behen-nut, of the turpentine-tree and of myrtle, and with resin, galbanum and wax of cyprus, just as occasion serves; but the worst adulteration is with gum, since this dries up on the back of the hand and sinks in water, which is a double test of the genuine article — pure tear of balsam ought to dry up likewise, but the sort with gum added to it turns brittle and forms a skin. it can also be detected by the taste; or when adulterated with wax or resin, by means of a hot coal, as it bums with a blacker flame. when mixed with honey, its quality alters immediately, as it attracts flies even when held in the hand. moreover a drop of pure balsam thickens in warm water, settling to the bottom of the vessel, whereas when adulterated it floats on the top like oil, and if it has been tampered with by using almond-oil, a white ring forms round it. the best test of all is that it will cause milk to curdle and will not leave stains on cloth. in no other case is more obvious fraud practised, inasmuch as every pint bought at a sale of. confiscated property for 300 denarii when it is sold again makes 1000 denarii: so much does it pay to increase the quantity by adulteration. the price of wood-balsam is six denarii a pound. 