mount atlas is said to possess a forest of a remarkable character, about which we have spoken. adjoining mount atlas is mauretania, which produces a great many citrus-trees — and the tablemania which the ladies use as a retort to the men against the charge of extravagance in pearls. there till exists a table that belonged to marcus cicero for which with his slender resources and, what is more surprising, at that date, he paid half-a-million sesterces; and also one is recorded as belonging to gallus asinius that cost a million. also two hanging tables were sold at auction by king juba, of which one fetched 1,200,000 sesterces and the other a little less. a table that was lately destroyed in a fire came down from the cethegi and had changed hands at 1,300,000 sesterces — the price of a large estate, supposing somebody preferred to devote so large a sum to the purchase of landed property. the size of the largest tables hitherto has been: one made by ptolemy, king of mauretania, out of two semicircular slabs of wood joined together, 4 1/2 ft. in diameter and 3 in. thick — and the invisibility of the join makes the table more marvellous as a work of art than it could possibly have been if a product of nature — and a single slab bearing the name of nomius a freedman of the emperor which is 3 ft. 11 1/4 in. across and 11 1/4 in. thick. under this head it seems proper to include a table that belonged to the emperor tiberius which was 4 ft. 2 1/4 in. across, and 1 1/2 in. thick all over, but was only covered with a veneer of citrus-wood, although the one belonging to his freedman nomius was so sumptuous. the material is an excrescence of the root, and is very greatly admired when it grows entirely underground, and so is more uncommon than the knobs that grow above ground, on the branches as well as on the trunk; and the timber bought at so high a price is in reality a disease of the trees, the size and the roots of which can be judged from the circular tabletops. in foliage, scent and the appearance of the trunk these trees resemble the female cyprus, which is also a forest tree. a mountain called ancorarius in hither mauretania provided the most celebrated citrus-wood, but the supply is now exhausted. 