there is also a shrub called cytisus, which has been remarkably praised by amphilochus of athens as a fodder for all kinds of cattle, and when dried for swine as well, and he guarantees a yearly return of 2,000 sesterces for an ingerum of it, even on only moderate soil. it serves the same purpose as vetch, but produces satiety more quickly, an animal being fattened by quite a moderate amount - so much so that beasts of burden fed on it refuse barley. no other fodder produces a larger quantity or a better quality of milk, and above everything as a medicine for cattle it renders them immune from all diseases. he also recommends a potion made of cytisus dried and boiled in water to be given with wine to nursing women when their milk fails, and he says this will make the infants stronger and taller; also he advises giving it while in the green state to fowls, or if it has dried, after being steeped. moreover, democritus and aristomachus promise that bees will never fail if there is cytisus available for them to feed on. no other fodder is less expensive. it is sown when barley is, or in the spring, like leek, if the seed is used; or else the stalk is planted in autumn before the winter solstice. if sown the seed is soaked, or, if there is a shortage of rain, it is watered after sowing. when the plants are 18 inches high they are replanted in a trench a foot deep. this planting is done through the equinoxes, while the shrub is still tender; it takes three years to mature, and it is cut at the spring equinox, when it has done flowering - a job that can be done very cheaply even by a boy or an old woman. it is of a whitish colour to look at, and its appearance may be briefly described by saying that it looks like a trifoliated plant with a rather narrow leaf. it is always fed to stock only once in two days, but in winter as it has got dry it is moistened first; ten pounds make a sufficient feed for a horse, and for smaller animals in proportion. incidentally, good results are got by sowing garlic and onions as catch-crops between the rows of cytisus. 