romulus used milk and not wine for libations, as is proved by the religious rites established by him which preserve the custom at the present day. the postumian law of king numa runs: thou shalt not sprinkle the funeral pyre with wine — a law to which he gave his sanction on account of the scarcity of the commodity in question, as nobody can doubt. by the same law he made it illegal to offer libations to the gods with wine produced from a vine that had not been pruned, this being a plan devised for the purpose of compelling people who were mainly engaged in agriculture and were slack about the dangers besetting a plantation, not to neglect pinning. we learn from marcus varro that mezentius, king of etruria, gave help to the rutuli against the latins at the price of receiving all the wine then in the territory of latium. at rome women were not allowed to drink wine. among various instances we find that the wife of egnatius maetennus was clubbed to death by her husband for drinking wine from the vat, and that romulus acquitted him on the charge of murder. fabius pictor has written in his annals that a matron was starved to death by her relatives for having broken open the casket containing the keys of the wine-cellar; and cato says that the reason why women are kissed by their male relations is to know whether they smell of 'tipple' — that was then the word denoting wine, and also the word 'tipsy' comes from it. judge gnaeus domitius once gave a verdict that a certain woman appeared to have drunk more wine that was required for the sake of her health without her husband's knowledge, and he fined her the amount of her dowry. and great economy in the use of this commodity prevailed for a long time. general lucius papirius before his decisive action against the samnites vowed to give a small goblet of wine to jupiter if he were victorious. lastly among votive offerings we find mention of gifts of pints of milk but nowhere of wine. moreover cato, when sailing on his expedition to spain, whence he returned with a triumph, drank no other wine than what was drunk by the crew of his galley, so little did he resemble the gentlemen who give even their guests other wines than those served to themselves, or else substitute inferior wines as the meal progresses. 