and if anybody cares to consider the matter more carefully, there is no department of man's life on which more labour is spent — as if nature had not given us the most healthy of beverages to drink, which all other animals make use of, whereas we compel even our beasts of burden to drink wine! and so much toil and labour and outlay is paid as the price of a thing that perverts men's minds and produces madness, having caused the commission of thousands of crimes, and being so attractive that a large part of mankind knows of nothing else worth living for! nay, what is more, to enable us to take more, we reduce its strength by means of a linen strainer, and other enticements are devised and even poisonous mixtures are invented to promote drinking, some men taking a dose of hemlock before they begin, in order that fear of death may compel them to drink, while others take powdered pumice and preparations which i am ashamed to teach the use of by describing them. the most cautious of these topers we see getting themselves boiled in hot baths and being carried out of the bathroom unconscious, and others actually unable to wait to get to the dinner table, no, not even to put their clothes on, but straight away on the spot, while still naked and panting, they snatch up huge vessels as if to show off their strength, and pour down the whole of the contents, so as to bring them up again at once, and then drink another draught; and they do this a second and a third time, as if they were born for the purpose of wasting wine, and as if it were impossible for the liquor to be poured away unless by using the human body as a funnel. this is the object of the exercises that have been introduced from foreign countries, and of rolling in the mud and throwing the neck back to show off the muscles of the chest. it is declared that the object of all these exercises is merely to raise a thirst! then again, think of the drinking matches! think of the vessels engraved with scenes of adultery, as though tippling were not enough by itself to give lessons in licentiousness! thus wine-bibbing is caused by licence, and actually a prize is offered to promote drunkenness — heaven help us, it is actually purchased. one man gets a prize for tipsiness on condition of his eating as much as he has drunk; another drinks as many cups as are demanded of him by a throw of the dice. then it is that greedy eyes bid a price for a married woman, and their heavy glances betray it to her husband; then it is that the secrets of the heart are published abroad: some men specify the provisions of their wills, others let out facts of fatal import, and do not keep to themselves words that will come back to them through a slit in their throat — how many men having lost their lives in that way! and truth has come to be proverbially credited to wine. meantime, even should all turn out for the best, drunkards never see the rising sun, and so shorten their lives. tippling brings a pale face and hanging cheeks, sore eyes, shaky hands that spill the contents of vessels when they are full, and the condign punishment of haunted sleep and restless nights, and the crowning reward of drunkenness, monstrous licentiousness and delight in iniquity. next day the breath reeks of the wine-cask, and everything is forgotten — the memory is dead. this is what they call 'snatching life as it comes!' when, whereas other men daily lose their yesterdays, these people lose tomorrow also. forty years ago, during the rule of the emperor tiberius, the fashion set in of drinking on an empty stomach and preceding meals with a draught of wine — yet another result of foreign methods and of the doctors' policy of perpetually advertising themselves by some novelty. this is the kind of prowess by which the parthians seek fame and alcibiades won his reputation in greece, and to which among ourselves novellius torquatus of milan even owed his surname — a man who held the offices of state from praetor right up to deputy consul — by tossing off 2 1/4 gallons at one draught, which was actually the origin of his surname; this was shown off as a sort of mystery before the emperor tiberius in his old age, when he had become very strict and indeed cruel, though for the matter of that his own earlier years had been somewhat inclined to strong drink, and it was believed that what recommended lucius piso to tiberius for selection as custodian of the city was that he had kept on carousing for two days and two nights without a break, at tiberius's own house after he had become emperor. and it was said that drusus caesar took after his father tiberius in nothing more than in this. torquatus had the unusual distinction — as even this science has its own code of rules — of never having stammered in his speech or relieved himself by vomiting or otherwise while he was drinking, but of having always turned up for duty with the morning guard without anything going wrong, and of having drunk the largest quantity on record at one draught and also added to the record by some more smaller draughts, of not having taken breath or spat while drinking (this on the best evidence), and of not having left any heel — taps to make a splash in the paved floor — under the elaborate code of rules to prevent cheating in drinking. tergilla brings it up against marcus cicero that his son cicero was in the habit of tossing off a gallon and a half at one draught, and that when tipsy he threw a goblet at marcus agrippa: these in fact are the usual results of intoxication. but no doubt young cicero wanted to deprive his father's murderer, mark antony, of his fame in this department; for antony had strained every effort to win the championship in this field before him, by actually publishing a book on the subject of his own drunken habits; and by venturing to champion his claims in this volume, to my mind he clearly proves the magnitude of the evils that he had inflicted on the world through his tippling. it was shortly before the battle of actium that he vomited up this volume, so proving clearly that he was already drunk with the blood of his compatriots, and that that made him only the more thirsty for it. for in fact the inevitable result of this vice is that the habit of drinking increases the appetite for it, and it was a shrewd observation of the scythian ambassador that the more the parthians drank the thirstier they became. 