even in regard to wine already vintaged there is a great difference in point of climate. in the neighbourhood of the alps they put it in wooden casks and close these round with tiles and in a cold winter also light fires to protect it from the effect of the cold. it is seldom recorded, but it has been seen occasionally, that the vessels have burst in a frost, leaving the wine standing in frozen blocks — almost a miracle, since it is not the nature of wine to freeze: usually it is only numbed by cold. districts with a milder climate store their wine in jars and bury them in the ground entirely, or else up to a part of their position so protecting them against the atmosphere; but in other places people keep off the weather by building roofs over them. and they also give the following rules: one side of a wine-cellar or at least its windows ought to face north-east, or at all events east; dunghills and tree-roots must be a long way off, and all objects with a strong smell should be avoided, as it very easily passes into wine — particularly there must be no fig-trees or wild figs near; also spaces must be left between the jars, to prevent taints passing from one to the other, as wine is always liable to very rapid infection. moreover (these instructions proceed) the shape of the jars is important: pot-bellied and broad ones are not so good. immediately after the rising of the dog-star they should be coated with pitch, and afterwards washed with seawater or water with salt in it, and then sprinkled with ashes of brushwood or else with potter's earth, and then rubbed clean and fumigated with myrrh, as should frequently be done with the wine-cellars also. weak vintages should be kept in jars sunk in the ground, but jars containing strong wines should be exposed to the air. the jars must never be filled quite full, and the space above the surface of the wine must be smeared with raisin-wine or boiled-down must mixed with saffron or sword-lily pounded up with boiled must. the lids of the jars should be treated in the same way, with the addition of mastich or bruttian pitch. it is laid down that jars must not be opened at mid-winter except on a fine day, and not when a south wind is blowing, or at a full moon. 