the pitch most highly esteemed in italy for vessels intended for storing wine is that which comes from the bruttii; it is made from the resin of the pitch-pine. but the pitch obtained from the wild pine in spain is very little valued, as resin from that tree is bitter and dry and has a disagreeable smell. the varieties of pitch and the method of making it we shall set out in the next volume when we are dealing with forest trees. the defects in resin beside those already mentioned are acridity or else a smoky tang, while the fault of pitch is being over-burnt; but the test is if when it is broken up the pieces have a luminous appearance, and if they stick to the teeth with an agreeably tart taste. in asia pitch from ida is most popular, and in greece that of pieria, but virgil gives the preference to the pitch of naryse. the more careful makers mix with the wine black mastich, which is found in pontus and which resembles bitumen, and also iris-root and oil. as for waxing the vessels it is found that this makes the wine turn sour; but it pays better to transfer the wine into vessels that have contained vinegar than into those which have contained sweet wine or mead. cato recommends that wine should be 'adjusted' — this is the word he uses ably adding lye-ashes boiled with boiled-down must in the proportion of a fortieth part to the wine skin, or else a pound and a half of salt, also occasionally some pounded marble; he also mentions sulphur, but he only puts resin near the end of the list. when the wine is beginning to mature he advises adding on the top of all some of the must which he calls 'squeezings,' which we take to mean that which is the very last pressed out. also we know that for the sake of colouring the wine colours are added as a sort of pigment and that this gives the wine more body. so many poisons are employed to force wine to suit our taste — and we are surprised that it is not wholesome! it is a proof that wine is beginning to go bad if a sheet of lead when dipped in it turns a different colour. 