so far we assign the chief distinction to the vines peculiar and indigenous to italy. the remaining kinds have come from abroad. from chios or thasos is imported a greek light wine not inferior in quality to the aminaean vintages; the vine has a very tender grape, and such small clusters that it does not pay to grow it except in a very rich soil. the eugenia, with its name denoting high quality, has been imported from the hills of taormina to be grown only in the territory of alba, as if transplanted elsewhere it at once degenerates: for in fact some vines have so strong an affection for certain localities that they leave all their reputation behind there and cannot be transplanted elsewhere in their full vigour. this occurs also with the rhaetian and allobrogian grapes - the latter the grape with the flavour of pitch which we mentioned above - which are famous at home but not worth recognition elsewhere. all the same, being good bearers they make up in quantity what they lack in quality, the eugenia grape in warm localities, the raetic in those with a moderate climate and the allobrogian in cold districts, as it ripens in frost and has a black colour. the wines made from the grapes so far mentioned, even from the black ones, turn to a white colour with age. the remaining vines are of no quality, although occasionally owing to the agency of climate or soil they are not disappointing when old, as in the case of the faecenian vine, and that of which blossoms at the same time but has fewer grapes; their blossom is never liable to injury, as they do not come before the west wind of early spring and can withstand wind and rain, although they do better in cold places than in warm ones and in damp situations than in dry. the visulla bears clusters of large size rather than closely packed; it cannot stand changes of weather, but lasts well against a continuous spell of cold or heat. the smaller variety of this kind is the better one. it is difficult to please in choice of soil, as in a rich soil it decays and in a thin soil it does not come on at all; its fastidiousness requires an intermediate blend of soil, and that is why it is common in the sabine hill country. its grapes are not attractive to look at, but have an agreeable flavour; if they are not gathered as soon as they are ripe, they will fall off even before they decay. its hardiness and the size of the leaves protect the grapes against hailstorms. 