we will now in a similar manner specify the wines of countries overseas. the wines held in highest esteem subsequent to the great vintages of the homeric age about which we have spoken above were those of thasos and chios, and of the latter the wine called ariusian. to these the authority of the eminent physician erasistratus, about four hundred and fifty years after the foundation of rome, added lesbian. at the present time the most popular of all is the wine of clazomenae, now that they have begun to flavour it more sparingly with seawater. the wine of lesbos by dint of its own nature smacks of the sea; and that of mount tmolus also is not esteemed as a wine to drink neat, but because being a sweet wine an admixture of it gives sweetness to the dry quality of the remaining vintages, at the same time also giving them age, as it at once makes them seem more mature. next after these in esteem are the wines of sikyon, cyprus, telmesus, tripoli, beyrout, tyre and sebennys. this last is grown in egypt, being made from three famous kinds of grapes that grow there, the thasian, the soot-grape and the pine-tree grape. ranking after these are the wines of hippodamas, of mystus and of the canthareos vine, the protropum of cnidos, and the wines of the volcanic region in mysia, of petra and of myconos. as for the vintage of mesogis, it has been found to cause headache, and that of ephesus has also proved to be unwholesome, because seawater and boiled must are employed to season it. apamea wine is said to be particularly suitable for making mead, and so likewise is the praetutian in italy — for this too is a property peculiar to certain kinds of wine: two sweet wines do not generally go well together. protagion also has quite gone out, a wine which the medical profession had put next to those of italy. the physician apollodorus in his pamphlet advising king ptolemy what wines to drink — the italian vintages being even then unknown — praised the wine of naspercene in pontus, and next to it the oretie, oineate, leucadian, ambraciote and peparethian vintages — the last he put before all the rest, but said it was less well thought of on account of its not being fit to drink before it was six years old. a sweet wine drawn off before treading the grapes. 