why should i hesitate to indicate by name the remaining varieties of fruit, seeing that they have prolonged the memory of those who established them for all time, as though on account of some outstanding achievement in life? unless i am mistaken, the recital will reveal the ingenuity exercised in grafting, and will show that nothing is so trifling as to be incapable of producing celebrity. well then, there are kinds of fruit that have their origin from matius and cestius, from mallius, and likewise from scaudius; and on the last a member of the claudian family named appius grafted the quince, producing the fruit called appian; this has the smell of a quince, the size of a scaudian apple, and a ruddy colour. and in order that nobody may imagine that it has gained its position by influence due to distinction and family, there is also a sceptian apple named from a freedman who discovered it, which is remarkable for its round shape. cato also mentions a quirinian apple, and a scantian which he says is stored in casks. but the apple naturalized here most recently of all is a small one with a most agreeable flavour named the petisian. the amerian and the little greek apples have advertised their places of origin, but all the rest have derived their name from definite reasons — 'twin' apples from their attachment of relationship, as they never grow singly, the 'syrian red' from its colour, the pear-apple from its affinity; the must-apple was named from its quickness in ripening, but is now called the honey-apple from its honey flavour; the round apple from its shape, which forms an exact sphere — the greeks, who call this apple the epirotic apple, prove that it was first produced in epirus; the orthomastium is so called from its resemblance to a teat, and the eunuch-apple of the belgians is named from its having no pips. the leaf-apple has a single leaf, or occasionally a pair of leaves, sprouting out from the middle of its side; the ragged-apple very quickly shrivels up into wrinkles; the lung-apple swells in a solid lump. some apples are of the colour of blood, because they derive their origin from a graft of the mulberry; but all apples are red in the parts that have been turned towards the sun. there are also wild apples with little attraction of flavour and an even sharper scent; their special fault is that of horrible sourness, and it is so powerful that it will blunt the edge of a sword. another apple is named 'flour-apple,' a very bad kind, although it is the earliest to come on and hastens to be picked. 