a remarkable fact about the fig is that this alone among all the fruits hastens to ripen with a rapidity due to the skill of nature. there is a wild variety of fig called the goat-fig which never ripens, but bestows on another tree what it has not got itself, since it is a natural sequence of causation, just as from things that decay something is generated. consequently this fig engenders gnats which, being cheated out of nutriment in their mother tree, fly away from its decaying rottenness to the kindred tree and by repeatedly nibbling at the figs - that is by feeding on them too greedily they open their orifices and so make a way into them, bringing with them the sun into the fruit for the first time and introducing the fertilizing air through the passages thus opened. then they consume the milky juice - this is the symptom of the fruit's infancy - which also dries up of its own accord; and because of this in fig-orchards a goat-fig is allowed to grow on the windward side, so that when a wind blows the gnats may fly off and be carried to the fig-trees. then a plan was discovered of also bringing branches of the wild fig from somewhere else and throwing them tied together in bundles on to the fig-orchard - a treatment which orchard figs do not require when planted in a thin soil with a northerly aspect, since they dry of their own accord owing to the situation of the place, and this cause by making them split open produces the same results as the action of the gnats; nor yet do they need screening where there is much dust, which occurs chiefly when a much frequented high road is adjacent, for dust also has the effect of drying them up and absorbing the milky juice. this method by means of the dust and the employment of the wild fig also serves the purpose of preventing the figs from falling off, by removing the juice which is soft and heavy, involving a certain liability to break. all figs are soft to the touch, and when ripe have grains inside them; also while in process of ripening they contain a milky juice, which when they are quite ripe is of the nature of honey. when left on the tree they grow old, and when quite aged they drip tears of gum. the figs that are highly approved arc given the distinction of being dried and kept in boxes, the best and largest growing in the island of iviza and the next best in the district of chicti; but in places where there is a very large supply of them, they are packed for storage in large jars in asia, but in casks in the city of ruspina in africa, and when dry they serve the purpose of bread and other viands at the same time, inasmuch as cato, as if laying down a law as to the proper rations for agricultural labourers, prescribes that they are to be reduced in quantity during the time when the figs are ripe. a plan has lately been devised to use a fresh fig instead of salt when eating cheese. to this class, as we have said, belong the syrian and the carian figs and the caunean figs that, when marcus crassus was embarking to sail against the parthians, gave him an omen by the voice of a man crying them for sale. all these varieties of fruit were imported from syria to his country place at alba by lucius vitellius, afterwards censor, when he was lieutenant-governor in that province, in the latter part of the principate of the emperor tiberius. 