but the variety which even in his day cato termed the african fig reminds us of his having employed that fruit for a remarkable demonstration. burning with a mortal hatred of carthage and anxious in regard to the safety of his descendants, at every meeting of the senate he used to vociferate 'down with carthage!' and so on a certain occasion he brought into the house an early ripe fig from that province, and displaying it to the fathers he said, 'i put it to you, when do you think this fruit was plucked from the tree?' everybody agreed that it was quite fresh; so he said, 'o well, it was picked the day before yesterday at carthage — so near is the enemy to our walls!' and they promptly embarked on the third punic war, in which carthage was brought down, although cato had been taken from us the year after the incident narrated. what should we chiefly wonder at in this? ingenuity or chance coincidence? rapidity of transit or manly force of character? the crowning marvel, which i for my part think wonderful beyond parallel, is that so mighty a city, which for one hundred and twenty years had competed for the sovereignty of the world, was overthrown by the evidence of a single fruit — an achievement which not trebbia or trasimene, not cannae with the tomb of rome's glory, not the carthaginian camp pitched three miles from the city and hannibal in person riding up to the colline gate were able to achieve: so much nearer did cato bring carthage to us by means of a single fruit! a fig-tree growing in the actual forum and meeting-place of rome is worshipped as sacred because things struck by lightning are buried there, and still more as a memorial of the fig-tree under which the nurse of romulus and remus first sheltered those founders of the empire on the lupercal hill — the tree that has been given the name of ruminalis, because it was beneath it that the wolf was discovered giving her rumis (that was the old word for breast) to the infants — a marvellous occurrence commemorated in bronze close by, as though the wolf had of her own accord passed across the meeting-place while attus naevius was taking the omens. and it is also a portent of some future event when it withers away and then by the good offices of the priests is replanted. there was also a fig-tree in front of the temple of saturn, which in 404 bc., after a sacrifice had been offered by the vestal virgins, was removed, because it was upsetting a statue of silvanus. a tree of the same kind that was self-sown lives in the middle of the forum, at the spot where, when the foundations of the empire were collapsing in portent of disaster, curtius had filled up the gulfs with the greatest of treasures, i mean virtue and piety and a glorious death. likewise self-sown is a vine in the same locality, and there is an olive planted by the care of the populace for the sake of the shade; an altar in the forum was removed on the occasion of the gladiatorial show given by his late majesty julius, the most recent one that fought in the forum. 