the walnut has won from the service-berry in point of size the place that it has yielded to it in popularity, although the walnut also accompanies the fescennine songs sung at weddings. the whole nut is considerably smaller than a pine-cone, but the kernel is larger in the same proportion. moreover the walnut has a distinction of structure that is peculiar to it, in that it is protected by a double covering, consisting first of a cushion-shaped cup and then of a woody shell. this is the reason why walnuts have become emblems consecrated to weddings [possibly as a fertility charm; these were thrown by the bridegroom to the boys carrying the torches], because their progeny is protected in so many ways — a more likely explanation of the custom than that it is due to the rattling rebound which it makes when it falls on the floor. the greek names for the walnut prove that it also was sent us from persia by the kings, the best kind of walnut being called in greek the persian and the 'royal,' and these were their original names. it is generally agreed that the caryon walnut gets its name from the headache that it causes because of its oppressive scent. the shell of the walnut is used for dyeing wool, and the young nuts while just forming supply a red hair-dye — this was discovered from their staining the hands when handled. age makes them oily. the only difference between the various kinds of walnuts consists in the hardness or brittleness of the shell and in its being thin or thick and full of recesses or uniform. it is the only fruit which nature has enclosed in a covering made of pieces fitted together; for the shell is divided into two boat-shaped pieces, and the kernel is further separated into four sections with a woody membrane running between them in all the other kinds of nut the whole is in one solid piece, as for instance in the hazel, itself also a sort of nut, the previous form of its name having been abellina, after the name of its place of origin; but it came into asia and greece from pontus and is consequently also called the pontic nut. this nut also is protected by a soft beard, but the shell and the kernel are formed of one solid round piece. it also is roasted. the kernel has a navel in its centre. a third variety of the nut class is the almond, which has an outer integument like that of the walnut but thinner, and also a second covering consisting of a shell; but the kernel is unlike a walnut's in its breadth and its hard part is more bitter. it is doubtful whether this tree existed in italy in the time of cato, as he calls almonds 'greek nuts,' a name which some people also retain in the class of walnuts. beside these cato adds a smooth, hard kind of hazel-nut, the praeneste nut, which he praises very highly and says can be kept fresh and green by being potted and buried in the ground. at the present day the almonds of thasos and alba are famous, and two kinds grown at taranto, one with a brittle shell and the other with a hard shell, which are very large in size and very little rounded in shape; also famous is the 'soft nut,' which breaks through its shell. some interpret the word for walnut as honorific and say it means 'jove's acorn.' i lately heard a man of consular rank declare that he owned some walnut trees that actually bore two crops a year. we have already spoken in the proper place of the pistachio, which is also a sort of nut. this also was likewise first brought into italy by vitellius at the same time, and it was simultaneously introduced into spain by pompeius flaccus, knight of rome, who was serving with vitellius. 