the laurel is especially assigned to triumphs, but it is extremely decorative for dwelling-houses, and guards the portals of the emperors and the high priests; there it hangs alone, adorning the mansions and keeping sentry-guard before the thresholds. cato has recorded two species of laurel, the delphic and the cyprian. pompeius lenaeus added one which he called mustax, because it was placed underneath mustacean cakes: he said that this has a very large, pendulous leaf of a whitish colour, and that the delphic laurel is a uniform greener colour, and has very large berries of a reddish green; and that this laurel is used to make wreaths for the winners at delphi, as it is for generals going in triumph at rome. he states that the cyprus laurel is crinkly, with a short black leaf that curves up along the edges. since his time varieties have been added: the tine tree — this some take to be the wild laurel, but there are people who think that it is a separate kind of tree: indeed there is a difference of colour, the berry being bright blue. another addition is the royal laurel, which has begun to be called the augusta laurel, a very large tree with a very large leaf and berries without any rough taste. some say that the royal laurel and the augusta are not the same, and make out the royal to be a special kind, with longer and broader leaves. the same persons place in another class, under the name of hacalia, the laurel which is the, commonest of all and bears the largest number of berries, but much to my surprise give the name of triumphal laurel to one that has no berries, and say that this is the one used by persons celebrating a triumph — unless the use of it began with his late majesty augustus, as we shall show, as sprung from the laurel which was sent down to him from heaven, which was a very low growing tree with a short, crinkled leaf, and very rarely met with. in ornamental gardening there is also the thasos laurel, which has a tiny leafy fringe as it were growing out of the middle of the leaf, and the gelded laurel, without this fringe, which is remarkably able to stand lack of sun and which consequently fills the ground with its shoots in however shady a place. there is also the ground laurel, a shrub that grows wild, and the alexandrine laurel, which some call the idaean, others hypoglottion, others carpophyllon and others hypelates. this laurel spreads out branches 9 inches long from its root, and is useful for making wreaths; the leaf is more pointed than that of the myrtle, and softer, brighter in colour and larger; the seed, which lies between the leaves, is red; it grows in great abundance on mount ida and in the vicinity of heraclea in pontus, and it only occurs in mountain districts. also the class of laurel called daphnoides is involved in a competition of nomenclature, as some call it the pelasgian laurel, others the leafy laurel, others alexander's crown. this also is a bushy shrub, with a thicker and softer leaf than the ordinary laurel, which leaves a burning taste in the mouth; the berries are a blackish red. the older writers noted that there was no variety of laurel that grew in corsica; but it has now been introduced there with successful results. 