an olive consists of a stone, oil, flesh and lees; the latter constituent is a bitter fluid, which forms out of water and consequently there is very little of it in dry situations but a large amount in wet ones. the oil is indeed a juice peculiar to the olive, and this can be specially learnt from olives in an unripe state, as we have shown when treating of unripe olive-juice and grape-juice. the oil continues to increase until the rising of the bear-ward, that is till september 16; afterwards the increase is in the sire of the stones and the flesh. at this stage if rain follows in actually large quantities, the oil is spoiled and turns into lees. the colour of these lees makes the olive-oil turn black, and consequently when there is only a tinge of black beginning it contains very little lees, and before any blackness shows none at all. people are quite mistaken in supposing what is really the near approach of decay to be the beginning of ripening, and it is also a mistake to imagine that the amount of oil is increased by the growth of the flesh of the olive, since all the juice is then going into a solid form and the woody interior is getting bigger. it is on this account that olive-trees are watered most plentifully at this period, but watering, whether done intentionally or occurring from repeated falls of rain, uses up the oil, unless fine weather follows to diminish the solid part of the berry. for, as theophrastus holds, the cause of oil as of other things is entirely warmth, and this is why steps are taken to produce warmth even in the presses and the cellars by lighting large fires. a third mistake is in over-economy, as owing to the cost of picking people wait for the olives to fall. those who compromise on a middle course in this matter knock the fruit down with poles, so injuring the trees and causing loss in the following year; in fact there was a very old regulation for the olive harvest: 'neither strip nor beat an olive-tree.' those who proceed most carefully use a reed and strike the branches with a light sideway blow; but even this method causes the tree to produce fruit only every other year, as the buds get knocked off, and this is no less the case if people quantity of lees, to discover how much larger an amount is found in the same kind of olive with every day that is added. there is an entirely unconquerable and widely prevalent mistake which supposes that the swelling of the olive increases the amount of the oil, in spite of the fact that the absence of connexion between the size of the berry and its yield of oil is proved by the olives called 'royal olives,' and by some people 'large-size olives,' and by others 'babbiae' — but anyhow a very large olive with very little juice, and also that the very fleshy olives in egypt produce a scanty amount of oil, while the extremely small olives in the decapolis of syria, not larger than a caper, nevertheless have an attractive flesh. it is on this account that imported olives are preferred for the table to those grown in italy, in spite of their being inferior for making oil, and in italy itself the olives of picenum and the sidicine are preferred to all the other kinds. those olives are kept separate and steeped in salt, as well as in lees or boiled must like the rest, and also some of them are left floating in their own oil and clean, without any adventitious attraction — the kind called in greek 'swimmers'; these olives are also crushed and then seasoned with a flavouring of green herbs. olives however unripe are actually made to ripen early by pouring boiling water on them; and it is surprising how olives suck up a sweet juice and take on a flavour that does not belong to them. as with grapes, so also among olives there are purple varieties, the posia almost shading off into black. beside the kinds already mentioned there is also the 'proud olive,' as well as the very sweet variety, which is merely dried by itself and is sweeter than a raisin; this last kind of olive is rather rare, and is grown in africa and in the vicinity of augusta emerita in lusitania. 