all trees however produce buds, even those which do not blossom. there is also a great difference between localities, inasmuch as of the same kind of tree those growing in marshy places bud earlier, those on the plains next and those in woods last of all; but taking them separately the wild pear buds earlier than the rest, the cornel buds when the west wind begins to blow, next the laurel, and a little before the equinox the lime and maple — while among the earliest trees to flower are the poplar, elm, willow, alder and the nuts; the plane also buds quickly. the other trees bud when spring is about to begin, the holly, terebinth, christ's thorn, chestnut and the acorn-bearing trees, while the apple is a late budder, and the cork buds latest of all. some trees bud twice, owing to excessive fertility of soil or the allurement of agreeable weather, and this occurs to a greater degree with the young blades of cereals, although in trees excessive budding tends to exhaust the sap; but some trees have other buddings by nature, in addition to that which takes place in spring, these being settled by their own constellations (an account of which will be given more appropriately in the next volume but one after this) — a winter budding at the rising of aquila, a summer one at the rising of the dog-star and a third at the rising of arcturus. some people think that the two latter buddings are common to all trees, but that they are most noticeable in the fig, the vine and the pomegranate; and they explain this as due to the fact that those are the times when there is the most abundant crop of figs in thessaly and macedonia; although this explanation holds good most clearly in egypt. also whereas the rest of the trees, as soon as they have begun to bud, keep on budding continuously, the hard-oak, the fir and the larch divide the process into three parts and produce their buds in three batches; consequently they also shed scales of bark three times, a process which occurs in all trees during germination because the bark of the pregnant tree is burst open. but their first budding is at the beginning of spring and takes about a fortnight, while they bud for the second time when the sun is passing through the twins, with the consequence that the first shoots are seen to be pushed up by those that follow, the growth being attached by a joint. the third budding period of the same trees, which starts from midsummer, is the shortest, and does not take more than a week; and on this occasion also the jointing on the tips as they grow out is clearly visible. only the vine buds twice, first when it puts forth a cluster and then when it spreads it out. those species which do not blossom only produce shoots and mature them. some blossom at once during the process of budding, and are quick in the blossom but slow in ripening, for instance the vine; some blossom with a late budding and ripen quickly, for instance the mulberry, which buds the latest among cultivated trees and only when the cold weather is over, owing to which it has been called the wisest of the trees; but when its budding has begun it breaks out all over the tree so completely that it is completed in a single night with a veritable crackling. 