but it is the helix which has most varieties of all, as it differs very greatly in leaf. the leaves are small and angular and of a rather elegant shape, whereas those of the remaining kinds are plain and simple. it differs also in the distance between the joints, but particularly in its infertility, as it does not bear any fruit. some people think that this is a matter of age and not of kind, and that the plant begins as a helix and becomes an ivy when it gets old. this is seen to be a clear mistake on their part, inasmuch as we find several more kinds of helix, but three that are most noticeable - the grass-green helix which is the commonest, a second kind with a white leaf, and a third kind with a variegated leaf, which is called thracian ivy. moreover there is a grass-ivy with rather narrow and symmetrically arranged and rather thickly growing leaves, and in another variety all these points are different; also in the variegated ivy one variety has narrower leaves arranged in a similar way and clustering more thickly, and another variety entirely lacking these features, and also the leaves are either larger or smaller, and differ in the arrangement of their markings; and in the white ivy in some cases the leaves are whiter than in others. the grass-green ivy grows the longest shoots; but it is the white ivy that kills trees, and by taking from them all their sap grows so thick a stalk as itself to become a tree. its characteristics are very large, very broad leaves, fat stiff buds, which in the other kinds are bent, and clusters standing up erect; and although in every kind of ivy the arms take root, yet this kind has the most spreading and powerful arms, those of the black ivy coming next. but it is a peculiarity of the white ivy that it throws out arms among the middle of its leaves, with which it always embraces things on either side, this being the case even on walls, although it is unable to go round them. consequently even though it is cut apart at several places nevertheless it lives and lasts on, and it has as many points to strike root with as it has arms, which make it safe and solid while it sucks and strangles trees. there is also a difference in the fruit of the white and the black ivy, since in some cases it is so bitter that birds will not touch it. 