the admiration expressed in old days for the reed-beds of the lake of orchomenus compels me to speak about them in greater detail. the greek name for a rather thick, stronger kind of reed used to be 'fence-reed,' and for a more slender variety 'plaiting reed,' the latter growing in islands floating on the water and the former on the banks overflowed by the lake. the third is the flageolet reed - 'pipe-reed' used to be the greek name for it. this took eight years to grow, as the lake also regularly took that space of time in rising, it being thought to be a bad omen if ever it continued at its full height two years longer, a thing that was marked by the fatal athenian battle at chaeronea. not far off is lebadea ... is called the cephisus flowing into it. when therefore the flooding has continued for a year, the reeds grow even to a size suitable for purposes of fowlink: these used to be called in greek 'yoke-reeds'; on the other hand those growing when the flood goes down sooner were called 'silky reeds,' with a thin stalk, those with a broader and whiter leaf being distinguished by the name of 'female reeds,' and those with only a small amount of down or none at all being called 'eunuchs.' these supplied the instruments for glorious music, though mention must also not be omitted of the further remarkable trouble required to grow them, so that excuse may be made for the present-day preference for musical instruments of silver. down to the time of the flautist antigenides, when a simple style of music was still practised, the reeds used to be regarded as ready for cutting after the rising of arcturus. when thus prepared the reeds began to be fit for use a few years later, though even then the actual flutes needed maturing with a great deal of practice, and educating to sing of themselves, with the tongues pressing themselves down, which was more serviceable for the theatrical fashions then prevailing. but after variety came into fashion, and luxury even in music, the reeds began to be cut before midsummer and made ready for use in three years, their tongues being wider open to modulate the sounds, and these continue to the present day. but at that time it was firmly believed that only a tongue cut from the same reed as the pipe in each ease would do, and that one taken from just above the root was suitable for a left-hand flute and one from just below the top for a right-hand flute; and reeds that had been washed by the waters of cephisus itself were rated as immeasurably superior. at the present time the flutes used by the tuscans in religious ritual are made of box-wood, but those for theatrical performances are made of lotus and asses' bones and silver. the reeds most approved for fowling come from palermo, and those to make fishing-rods are from abarsa in africa. 