there are, however, several varieties of reed. one is rather compact and has joints closer together, with short spaces between them, while another has them farther apart with larger spaces between them, and is also thinner in itself. but another kind of cane is hollow for its whole length; its greek name means the flute-reed, and it is very useful for making flutes because it contains no pith and no fleshy substance. the orchomenus cane has a passage right through even the knots, and is called in greek the pipe-reed; this is more suitable for flageolets, as the preceding kind is for flutes. there is another reed the wood of which is thicker and the passage narrow; this reed is entirely filled with spongy pith. reeds are of various lengths and thickness. the one called the donax throws out most shoots; it only grows in watery places — inasmuch as this also constitutes a difference, a reed growing in dry places being much preferred. the reed used as an arrow is a special kind, as we have said, but the cretan variety has the longest intervals between the knots, and when heated allows itself to be bent in any direction you please. also differences are made by the leaves, which vary not only in number and length but also in colour. the laconian reed has spotted leaves, and throws out a greater number at the bottom of the stalk, as is thought to be the case with reeds in general that grow round marshy pools, which are different from river reeds, being draped with long leaves climbing upward and embracing the stem for a considerable distance above the knot. there is also a slanting reed which does not shoot upward to any height but spreads itself out close to the ground like a shrub; it is very attractive to animals when young and tender, and is called by some people the cletia. also in italy there is a growth, found in marsh-reeds, only coming out of the outer skin just below the tuft, named adarca, which is very beneficial for the teeth, as it has the same pungency as mustard. 