the flesh of some trees contains fibres and veins. it is easy to distinguish between them, the veins being broader and whiter than the fibre. veins are found in wood that is easy to split, and consequently if you put your ear to one end of a beam of wood however great its length you can hear even taps made with a graver on the other end, the sound penetrating by passages running straight through the wood, and by this test you can detect whether the timber is twisted and interrupted by knots. in the ease of trees in which there are tuberosities resembling the glands in the flesh of an animal, these contain no vessels or fibres, but a kind of hard knot of flesh rolled up in a ball; in the citrus and the maple this is the most valuable part. the other kinds of wood employed for making tables are cut into circles by splitting the trees along the line of the fibre, as otherwise the vein cut across the round of the free would be brittle. in beech trees the grainings in the fibre run crosswise, and consequently even vessels made of beech-wood were highly valued in old days: manius curius declared on oath that he had touched nothing of the booty taken in a battle except a flask made of beech-wood, to use in offering sacrifices. a log of timber floats more or less horizontally, each part of it sinking deeper the nearer it was to the root. some timbers have fibre without veins, consisting of thin filaments merely; these are the easiest to split. others have no fibre, and break more quickly than they split, for instance olives and vines. but on the other baud in the fig-tree the body consists entirely of flesh, while the holm-oak, eornel, hard oak, cytisus, mulberry, ebony, lotus and the trees that we have stated to be without marrow, consist entirely of bone. the timber of all of these is of a blackish colour except the cornel, hunting spears made of which are bright yellow when notched with incisions for the purpose of decoration. the cedar, the larch and the juniper are red. the female larch contains wood called in greek aegis, of the colour of honey; this wood when made into panels for pictures has been found to last for ever without being split by any cracks; it is the part of the trunk nearest to the pith; in the fir-tree the greeks call this 'ilusson.' the hardest part of the cedar also is the part nearest the pith - as the bones are in the body - provided the has been scraped off. it is reported that the inner part of the elder also is remarkably firm, and some people prefer hunting spears made of it to all others, as it consists entirely of skin and bones. 