the question of raindrops falling from trees can be settled briefly. with all the trees which are so shielded by the spread of their foliage that the rainwater does not flow down over the tree itself the drip does cruel injury. consequently in this enquiry it will make a great deal of difference over what space the soil in which we are going to plant causes the various trees to grow. in the first place, hillsides in themselves require smaller intervals between the trees. in places exposed to the wind, it pays to plant trees closer together, but nevertheless to give the olive very wide spacing, cato's opinions for italy being that olives should be planted 25 or at most 30 feet apart; but this varies with the nature of the sites. the olive is the largest of all the trees in andalusia; in africa, however, so it is stated — the guarantee for this statement will rest with the authorities who make it — there are a number of trees called 'thousand-pounders', from the weight of oil that they produce in a year's crop. consequently mago has prescribed a space of 75 feet all round, or in thin, hard soil exposed to the wind, 45 feet at least. andalusia however reaps most abundant crops of corn grown between the olives. it will be agreed that it shows shameful ignorance to thin full-grown trees more than a proper amount and hasten them into old age, or to cut them down altogether, by doing which the persons who planted them frequently manifest their own incompetence. nothing is more disgraceful for farmers than to do a thing and then have to be sorry for it, so that in fact it pays much better to err by leaving too much space between some trees are by nature slow growers, and in particular those that only grow from seed and that live a long time. those on the other hand that are short-lived, for instance the fig, pomegranate, plum, apple, pear, myrtle and willow, grow quickly, and nevertheless they lead the way in producing their riches, for they begin to bear at three years old, making some show even before. among these the pear is the slowest of all to bear, and the cypirus and the false cypirus bush the quickest, for this group flowers straight away and goes on to produce its seed. but all trees mature more quickly if the suckers are removed and the nourishing juices brought back into a single stem. 