again, immoderate heat and cold have a similar effect in certain places. thrace owes its fertility in corn to cold, africa and egypt to heat. there is one place in the island of chalcia belonging to rhodes which is so fertile that they reap barley sown at its proper time and after carrying it at once sow the field again and reap a second crop of barley with the other harvest. in the district of venufrum a gravel soil is found to be most suitable for olives, but in baetica very rich soil. the vines of pucinum bare scorched on rock, whereas those of caecubum grow in the damp ground of the pontine marshes. so much variety and diversity obtains in the evidence of experience and in soil. vopiscus caesar when appearing in a case before the censors spoke of the plains of rosia as 'the paps of italy', where stakes left lying on the ground the day before were hidden with grass; but these plains are only valued for pasture. nevertheless nature did not wish that we should be uninstructed, and has caused errors to be fully admitted even where she had not given clear information as to the good points; and accordingly we will first speak about soil defects. a bitter soil is indicated by its black undergrown plants; shrivelled shoots indicate a cold soil, and drooping growths show a damp soil; red earth and damp clay are noted by the eye — they are very difficult to work, and liable to burden the rakes or ploughshares with huge clods — although what is an obstacle to working the soil is not also a handicap to its productivity; and similarly the eye can discern the opposite, an ash-coloured soil and a white sand; while a barren soil with its hard surface is easily detected by even a single stroke of a prong. cato defines defects of soil briefly and in his customary style: 'take care when the soil is rotten not to dent it either with a waggon or by driving cattle over it'. what do we infer from this designation to have been the thing that so much alarmed him that he almost prohibits even setting foot on it? let us compare it with rottenness in wood, and we shall find that the faults of soil which he holds in such aversion consist in being dry, porous, rough, white, full of holes and like pumice-stone. he has said more by one striking word than could be fully recounted by any quantity of talk. for some soil exists which analysis of its vices shows to be not old in age, a term which conveys no meaning in the case of earth, but old in its own nature, and consequently infertile and powerless for every purpose. the same authority gives the view that the best land is that extending in a level plain from the base of a mountain range in a southerly direction, this being the conformation of the whole of italy, and that the soil called 'dark' is 'tender'; consequently this will be the best land both for working and for the crops. we need only try to see the meaning of this remarkably significant expression 'tender', and we shall discover that the term comprises every desideratum. 'tender' soil is soil of moderate richness, a soft and easily worked soil, neither damp nor parched; it is soil that shines behind the ploughshare, like the field which homer, the fountainhead of all genius, has described as represented by a divine artist in a carving on a shield, and he has added the marvellous touch about the furrow showing black although the material used to represent it was gold; it is the soil that when freshly turned attracts the rascally birds which accompany the ploughshare and the tribe of crows which peck the very footprints of the ploughman. 