in its third year a vine sends out a quick-growing strong sprig (which in time becomes a tree); and this leaps up to the cross-bar. thereupon some growers 'blind' it by removing the eyes with a pruning-knife turned upward, with the object of making it grow longer — a most damaging practice, as the tree's habit of putting out shoots is more profitable, and it is better to trim off leafy shoots from the plant tied to the cross-bar to the point where it is decided to let it make strength. some people forbid touching it in the year after it is transplanted, and do not allow it to be trimmed with a pruning-knife till after 5 years, but then advise cutting it back to three buds. others prune it back even the next year, but so as to let it add three or four new joints every year, and finally bring it up to the level of the cross-bar in the fourth year. both methods make the tree slow to fruit, and also shrivelled and knotty, with the growth natural to dwarfs. but it is best for the mother to be strong and for the new growth to strike out boldly. also there is no safety in a shoot covered with scars — that idea is a great mistake, due to inexperience: any growth of that sort arises from a blow, it is not due to the mother vine. she should possess her full strength while the new shoot is growing sturdy, and she will welcome her yearly progeny with her whole substance when it is permitted to be born: nature engenders nothing piecemeal. when the new growth has become strong enough it will have to be put in position on a cross-bar at once, but if it is still rather weak it must be pruned back and put in a sheltered position directly under the bar. it is the strength of the stem and not its age that decides; it is rash to put a vine under control before it has reached the thickness of one's thumb. in the following year one branch or two according to the strength of the parent vine should be brought on, and the same shoots must be nursed in the following year also if lack of strength makes this necessary, and only in the third year should two more be added; nor should more than four branches ever be allowed to grow — in short no indulgence should be shown, and fertility should always be kept in check. also nature is such that she wants to produce offspring more than she wants to live — all that is subtracted from a plant's wood is added to the fruit; the vine on the contrary prefers its own growth to the production of fruit, because fruit is a perishable article; thus it luxuriates ruinously, and does not fill itself out but exhausts itself. 