in this place moreover may be quoted a dictum as to luxury that is also undoubtedly to the point. cicero, that other luminary of learning, says 'unguents with an earthy taste are better than those with the flavour of saffron' — he preferred the word 'taste' to 'smell'. it is certainly the case that a soil which has a taste of perfume will be the best soil. and if we need an explanation as to what is the nature of this odour of the soil that is desiderated, it is that which often occurs even when the ground is not being turned up, just towards sunset, at the place where the ends of rainbows have come down to earth, and when the soil has been drenched with rain following a long period of drought. the earth then sends out that divine breath of hers, of quite incomparable sweetness, which she has conceived from the sun. this is the odour which ought to be emitted when the earth is turned up, and when found it will deceive no one; and the scent of the soil will be the best criterion of its quality. this is the kind of earth usually found in land newly ploughed where an old forest has been felled, earth that is unanimously spoken highly of. and in the matter of bearing cereals the same earth is understood to be more fertile the more often cultivation has been suspended and it has lain fallow; but this is not done in the case of vineyards, and consequently the greater care must be exercised in the selection of their site, so as not to justify the opinion of those who have formed the view that the land of italy has by this time been exhausted. in other kinds of soil, it is true, ease of cultivation depends also on the weather, and some land cannot be ploughed after rain, as owing to excessive richness it becomes sticky; but on the other hand in the african district of byzacium, that fertile plain which yields an increase of one hundred and fifty fold, land which in dry weather no bulls can plough, after a spell of rain we have seen being broken by a plough drawn by a wretched little donkey and an old woman at the other end of the yoke. the plan of improving one soil by means of another, as some prescribe, throwing a rich earth on the top of a poor one or a light porous soil on one that is moist and too lush, is an insane procedure: what can a man possibly hope for who farms land of that sort? 