in addition to worm-disease and star-blight vines suffer from a disease of the joints that is peculiar to them; it is due to three causes - first, loss of buds owing to stormy weather, second, as noted by theophrastus, pruning done with an upward cut, and third, damage caused by lack of skill in their cultivation; for all injuries to which vines are liable are felt in their joints. one kind of star-blight is dew-disease, when the grapevines shed their blossoms, or when the grapes shrivel up into a hard lump before they grow big. vines are also sickly when they have been nipped by cold, the eyes being injured by frostbite after the branches have been pruned. this also happens owing to unseasonable hot weather, since everything depends on measure and on a fixed proportion. defects may also be caused by the fault of the vine-dressers, when the vines are tied too tight, as has been said, or else when the digger trenching round them has injured them with a damaging blow, or even when a careless person ploughing underneath them has displaced the roots or scaled the bark off the trunk; also a contusion may be caused by pruning with too blunt a knife. all of these causes make it more difficult for a vine to bear cold or hot weather, since every harmful influence from outside makes its way into the sore. but the most delicate of all trees is the apple, and particularly any kind that bears sweet fruit. with some trees weakness causes barrenness but does not kill them, as is the case with a pine or a palm if you lop off their top, as they cease to bear but do not die. sometimes also the fruit by itself is attacked by disease but not the tree, if there has been a lack of rain or of warm weather or wind at the times when they are needed, or if on the contrary they have been too plentiful, for the fruit falls off or deteriorates. the worst among all kinds of damage is when a vine or olive has been struck by heavy rain when shedding its blossom, as the fruit is washed off at the same time. 