the following are the instructions given by cato on the whole subject of vine growing: 'make the vine grow as high as possible, and tie it up well, only not binding it too tight. treat it in the following manner: turn over the earth round the base of the vines during seed-time; after pruning a vine dig round it and begin to plough; drive continuous furrows to and fro; plant layers of young vines as soon as possible, and then harrow the ground. prune old vines as little as possible; preferably, if necessary, layer them on the ground and cut off the layers two years later. the time for cutting back a young vine will be when it has gained strength. if a vineyard has become bare of vines, make furrows between the vines and plant a quickset in each; prevent any shade from falling on the furrows, and dig them over frequently. plant ocinuma clover in an old vineyard if the soil is meagre - forbear to sow anything that makes seed - and put dung, chaff and grape husks or something of that sort round the feet. when a vine begins to show leaves, trim it. fasten young vines with several ties, so that the stems may not get broken; and as soon as a vine begins to run out into a rod, tie down its young shoots lightly and stretch them out so as to be in the right position. when the grapes begin to become mottled, tie up the vines below. one season for grafting a vine is during spring, and another when the bunch blossoms: the latter is the best. if you want to transplant an old vine, you will only be able to do so if it is of the thickness of an arm. first prune it; do not leave more than two buds on the stem. dig it well up from the roots, and be careful not to injure the roots. place it in the hole or furrow just as it was before, and cover it up and tread it down well; and set up the vine and tie it and bend it over in the same direction as it was before; and dig the ground frequently. - ocinum, which cato recommends planting in a vineyard, was the old name for a fodder-plant capable of standing shade, and refers to its rapid growth. 