the chestnut-tree is preferred to all other props because of the ease with which it is worked its obstinate durability, and because when cut it nuts again even more abundantly than the willow. it asks for a light yet not sandy soil, and especially a damp gravel or glowing-coal earth or even a powdery tufa, and it will grow in a site however shady, and facing north and extremely cold, or even in one on a slope; but at the same time it refuses dry gravel, red earth, chalk, and all rich fertile soils. we have said that it is grown from the nut, but it will only grow from very large ones, and only when they are planted five in a heap together. the soil underneath must be kept broken up from november to february, when the nuts detach themselves and fall from the tree and sprout in the ground underneath it. they should be planted in a hole measuring nine inches each way, with spaces of a foot between them. after two years they are transferred from this seed-plot to another and replanted two feet apart. people also grow them from a layer, which indeed is easier in their case than with any other tree: for the root is bared and the layer laid in the trench at full length, and then it throws out a new shoot from the top left above the earth and another from the root. when transplanted however it does not know how to make itself at home and dreads the novelty for almost two years, but afterwards it puts out shoots. consequently plantations felled for timber are replenished by sowing nuts rather than by planting quicksets. the mode of cultivation is not different from that used for the trees a mentioned above: it is by loosening the soil and pruning the lower part for the next two years. for the rest the tree looks after itself, as its shadow kills off superfluous suckers. it is lopped before the end of the sixth year. the props provided by one acre are enough for twenty acres of vines, as they even grow forked in two from the root, and they last till after the next lopping of the plantation they come from. 