no grain is greedier than wheat or draws more nourishment out of the soil. common wheat may properly designate the choicest variety, whether in whiteness or goodness or weight. it is suitable for moist districts like those in italy and gallia comata, but across the alps it only keeps its character in the territory of the allobroges and remi, while in the other parts of that country it changes in two years into ordinary wheat. the cure for this is to select its heaviest grains for sowing. common wheat flour makes bread of the highest quality and the most famous pastry. the top place in italy is taken by a mixture of campanian common wheat flour with that grown at pisa, the former being reddish but the chalk-like pisa variety whiter and heavier. a fair yield from the campanian grain called 'bolted' is to give four sixteenths of fine flour to the peck, or from what is called common grain, not bolted, five sixteenths, as well as half a peck of fine flour and four sixteenths of the coarse meal called 'seconds', and the same amount of bran; whereas pisa wheat should give four sixteenths of prime flour, while of the other kinds the yield is the same. the wheats of clusium and arezzo give an additional sixteenth of prime flour, but in the remaining qualities they are on a level. if however it is wished to make special flour, the return is sixteen pounds of bread and three pecks of seconds and half a peck of bran. this depends on different methods of milling; for grain ground when dry gives more flour, but if sprinkled with salt water it makes a whiter meal, but keeps more back in the bran. the name for flour, farina, is obviously derived from far, emmer. a peck of flour made of gallic conmion wheat gives 20 pounds of bread, that of the italian kind two or three pounds more, in the case of bread baked in a tin — for loaves baked in the oven they add two pounds in either kind of wheat. 'hard' flour is made from hard wheat, the most highly esteemed coming from africa. a fair return is half a peck from a peck with five sixteenths of special flour — that is the name given in the case of hard wheat to what in common wheat is called the 'flower'; this is used in copper works and paper mills — and in addition four sixteenths of second quality flour and the same amount of bran, but from a peek of 'hard' flour 22 pounds of bread and from a peck of flower of wheat 16 pounds. the price for this when the market rate is moderate is 40 asses a peek for flour, 8 asses more for 'hard' flour and twice as much for bolted common wheat. there is also another distinction, that when bolted a single time it gives 17 pounds of bread, when twice 18, when three times 19 1/3, and 2 1/2 pounds of second quality bread, the same amount of shorts and six sixteenths of bran. 