but among the first things let us give a recipe for alica, a very excellent and healthy food, by means of which italy has undoubtedly won the palm for cereals. it is no doubt also made in egypt, but of a rather contemptible quality, whereas in italy it occurs in a number of places, for instance in the districts of verona and pisa, but the most highly recommended variety in campania. there beneath cloud-capped mountains lies a plain extending in all for about 40 miles on the level. the ground of this plain, to begin by stating the nature of the soil, being dusty on the surface but spongy underneath and also porous like pumice, what is a fault in mountain country turns into an advantage, as the earth allows the frequent rainfall to percolate and passes it through, and so as to facilitate cultivation has refused to become soaked or swampy, while at the same time it does not give back the moisture it receives by any springs, but warms it up inside itself to a moderate temperature and retains it as a kind of juice. the land is in crop all the year round, being sown once with italian millet and twice with emmer wheat; and yet in spring the fields having had an interval of rest produce a rose with a sweeter scent than the garden rose, so far is the earth never tired of giving birth; hence there is a common saying that the campanians produce more scent than other people do oil. but as the campanian plain surpasses all the lands of the world, so in the same degree is campania itself surpassed by the part of it called leboriae, and by the greeks the phlegraean plain. this district is bounded on either side by consular roads that run from pozzuoli and from cumae to capua. — alica is made from 'zea' which we have already called by the name of 'seed'. its grain is pounded in a wooden mortar so as to avoid the hardness of stone grating it up, the motive power for the pestle, as is well known, being supplied by the labour of convicts in chains; on the end of the pestle there is a cap of iron. after the grain has been stripped of its coats, the bared kernel is again broken up with the same implements. the process produces three grades of alica — very small, seconds, and the largest kind which is called in greek 'select grade'. still these products have not yet got their whiteness for which they are distinguished, though even at this stage they are preferable to the alexandrian alica. in a subsequent process, marvellous to relate, an admixture of chalk is added, which passes into the substance of the grain and contributes colour and fineness. the chalk is found at a place called white earth hill, between pozzuoli and naples, and there is extant a decree of his late majesty augustus ordering a yearly payment of 200,000 sesterces from his privy purse to the people of naples as rent for this hill — the occasion was when he was establishing a colony at capua; and he added that his reason for importing this material was that the campanians had stated that alica could not be made without that mineral. (in the same hill sulphur is also found, and the springs of the araxus which issue from it are efficacious for improving the sight, healing wounds and strengthening the teeth.) a spurious alica is manufactured chiefly from an inferior kind of sea growing in africa, the ears of which are larger and blacker and on a short stalk. these are mixed with sand and pounded, and even so there is a difficulty in rubbing off the husks, and only half the quantity of naked grain is produced; and afterwards a quarter the amount of white lime is sprinkled into the grain, and when this has stuck together with it they bolt it through a flour-sieve. the grain that stays behind in the sieve is called residuary and is the largest in size. that which goes though is sifted again in a finer sieve, and is called seconds, and likewise the name of sieve-flour is given to that which in a similar manner stays behind in a third extremely fine sieve that only lets grains like sand through. there is another method of adulteration which is everywhere used: they pick out from wheat the whitest and largest grains, half boil them in pots and afterwards dry them in the sun to half their former size and then again lightly sprinkle them with water and crush them in a mill. a more attractive kind of groats called tragum is made from zea than from other wheat, although it is in fact merely a spurious alica; but it is given whiteness by an admixture of milk boiled in it instead of chalk. 