(authors of our nation have only touched on it in passing, but the greeks have dealt with it rather more carefully, although even they have placed it among kitchen-garden plants), if we are to follow the proper order, as the turnip should be mentioned directly after corn or at all events after the bean, since its utility surpasses that of any other plant. for to begin with it grows as fodder for all animals, nor is it the lowest in rank among herbs to satisfy the needs of the various kinds of birds as well, and the more so if it is well boiled in water. cattle also are fond of its leaves, even man esteeming turnip tops when in season no less than cabbage sprouts, also liking them when they are yellow and have been left to die in barns even more than when green. but turnip itself keeps if left in the earth where it grows, and also afterwards if left spread out, almost till the next crop comes, and it serves as a precaution against scarcity of food. it ranks third after wine and corn among the products of the country north of the po. it is not particular in its choice of soil, growing where almost nothing else can be grown. it actually thrives on mist and frost and cold, growing to a marvellous size: i have seen turnips weighing over 40 pounds. among our own articles of diet it is popularized by several modes of dressing, and it holds the field for salads when subdued by the pungency of mustard, and is actually stained six different colours beside its own, even purple: indeed that is the only suitable colour served at table. the greeks have produced two primary classes of turnip, the male and the female, and have shown a way of growing both from the same seed, as they turn male when sown more thickly, and also in difficult ground. the smaller the seed is the better its quality. the greeks distinguish in all three kinds of turnip, as it either spreads out into breadth or makes a round ball, while a third kind they have named wild turnip, with a root running out to a great length like a radish, and an angular leaf with a rough surface and an acid juice which if extracted at harvest time and mixed with a woman's milk makes an eyewash and a cure for dim sight. they are believed to grow sweeter and bigger in cold weather; warm weather makes them run to leaves. the prize goes to turnip grown in the nursia district - it is priced at a sesterce per pound, and at two sesterces in a time of scarcity - and the next to those grown on mt. algidus: 