an area of land that one yoke of oxen could plough in a day used to be called an acre, and a distance which oxen could be driven with a plough in a single spell of reasonable length was called a furlong; this was 40 yards, and doubled longways this made an acre. the most lavish gifts bestowed on generals and valorous citizens were the largest area of land that a person could plough round in one day, and also a contribution from the whole people of one or two quarterns of emmer wheat a head. moreover the earliest surnames were derived from agriculture: the name 'pilumnus' belonged to the inventor of the 'pestle' for corn-mills, 'piso' came from 'pounding' corn, and again families were named fabius or lentulus or cicero according as someone was the best grower of some particular crop. one of the junius family received the name of bubulcus because he was very good at managing oxen. moreover among religious rites none was invested with more sanctity than that of communion in wheat, and newly married brides used to carry in their hands an offering of wheat. bad husbandry was judged an offence within the jurisdiction of the censors, and, as cato tells us, to praise a man by saying he was a good farmer and a good hush and man was thought to be the highest form of commendation. that is the source of the word locyples, meaning 'wealthy', 'full of room', i.e. of land. our word for money itself was derived from pecus, 'cattle', and even now in the censor's accounts all the sources of national revenue are termed 'pastures', because rent of pasture-land was for a long time the only source of public income. moreover flues were only specified in terms of payment of sheep and oxen; nor must we omit the benevolent spirit of the law of early times, in that a judge imposing a fine was prohibited from specifying an ox before he had previously fined the offender a sheep. there were public games in honour of oxen, those conducting them being called the bubetii. king servius stamped first the bronze coinage with the likeness of sheep and oxen. indeed the twelve tables made pasturing animals by stealth at night on crops grown under the plough, or cutting it, a capital offence for an adult, and enacted that a person found guilty of it should be executed by hanging, in reparation to ceres, a heavier punishment than in a conviction for homicide; while a minor was to be flogged at the discretion of the praetor or sentenced to pay the amount of the damage or twice that amount. in fact the system of class and office in the state itself was derived from no other source. the rural tribes were the most esteemed, consisting of those who owned farms, whereas the city tribes were tribes into which it was a disgrace to be transferred, this stigmatizing lack of activity. consequently the city tribes were only four, named from the parts of the city in which their members resided, the suburan, palatine, colline and esquiline. they used to resort to the city on market-days and consequently elections were not allowed to be held on market-days, so that the common people of the country might not be called away from their homes. beds of straw were used for a siesta and for sleeping on. finally the actual word 'glory' used to be 'adory', owing to the honour in which emmer was held. for my own part i admire even actual words used in their old signification; for the following sentence occurs in the memoranda of the priesthood: 'let a day be fixed for taking augury by the sacrifice of a dog before the corn comes out of the sheath and before it penetrates through into the sheath.' 