lucerne is foreign even to greece, having been imported from media during the persian invasions under darius [492-450 b.c.]; but so great a bounty deserves mention even among the first of the grains, since from a single sowing it will last more than thirty years. in stalk and leaf it resembles trefoil, being jointed, and as the stalk rises higher the leaves become narrower. amphilochus devoted one volume to lucerne and tree-medick. the land for it to be sown in is broken in autumn after being cleared of stones and weeded, and is afterwards ploughed over and harrowed and then covered with chalk, the process being repeated a second and a third time at intervals of five days, and after the addition of manure — it requires a dry and rich soil or else a well-watered one — and after the land has been thus prepared the seed is sown in may, as otherwise it is liable to damage from frost. it is necessary for the whole plot to be occupied with closely sown seed, and for weeds shooting up in between to be debarred — this is secured by sowing three modii to the acre — and care must be taken that the sun may not scorch the seed up, and it ought to be covered over with earth immediately. if the soil be damp or weedy, the lucerne is overpowered and goes off into meadow; consequently as soon as it is an inch high it must be freed from all weeds, by hand in preference to hoeing. it is cut when it is beginning to flower and every time it flowers again: this happens six times, or at the least four times, in a year. it must be prevented from running to seed, because till it is three years old it is more useful as fodder. it must be hoed in springtime and rid of all other plants, and till the third year shaved down to the earth with weeding-hoes: this makes the rest of the plants die without damaging the lucerne itself, because of the depth of its roots. if weeds get the upper hand, the sole remedy is in the plough, by repeatedly turning the soil till all the other roots die. it must not be fed to cattle to the point of repletion, lest it should be necessary to let blood. also it is more useful when green, as it dries into a woody state and finally thins out into a useless dust. 