such cures of these diseases as pertain to grain in the blade are to be found in the hoe, and when the seed is being sown, in ashes; but the diseases that occur in the seed and round the root can be guarded against by taking precautions. it is believed that seed steeped in wine before sowing is less liable to disease. virgil recommends steeping bean in native soda and dregs from oil-presses, and also guarantees this as a method of increasing its size. others however hold the view that it grows specially well if it is kneaded in a mixture of urine and water three days before sowing; and at all events that if the crop is hoed three times it will yield a peck of crushed beans from a peck of whole beans; and that the other kinds of seeds are not liable to maggots if mixed with crushed cypress leaves, and also if sown just before a new moon. as a cure for diseases of millet many recommend carrying a toad round the field at night before it is hoed and then burying it in the middle of the field, with a pot for a coffin; it is then prevented from being damaged by a sparrow or by worms; but it must be dug up before the field is sown, otherwise the land turns sour. they also say that seed is made more fertile if it is touched by the forequarters of a mole. democritus advises soaking all seeds before they are sown in the juice of the plant that grows on roof-tiles, called in greek aeizoon and by other people 'under-the-eaves', and in our language 'squat' or 'little finger'. but if damage is being done by blight and by worms adhering to the roots, a common remedy is to sprinkle the plant with pure olive oil lees, not salted, and then to hoe, and if the crop is beginning to shoot out into knots to weed it, so that weeds may not get the upper hand. i know for a fact that flights of starlings or sparrows, the plague of common and italian millets, can be driven away from them by burying a plant, the name of which is unknown to me, at the four corners of the field, with the remarkable result that no bird whatever will enter it. mice are driven away by sprinkling the seed with the ashes of a weasel or a cat dissolved in water or with water in which those animals have been boiled; but their poison makes an odour even in bread, and consequently it is thought more satisfactory to steep the seed in ox-gall. as for the greatest curse of corn, mildew, fixing branches of laurel in the ground makes it pass out of the fields into their foliage. excessive luxuriance in corn-crops is corrected by grazing cattle on them, provided the corn is still in the blade, and although it is eaten down even several times it suffers no injury in the ear. it is absolutely certain that if the ears are lopped off even once the grain becomes longer in shape and hollow inside and worthless, and if sown does not grow. nevertheless at babylon they cut the corn twice and the third time pasture it off with cattle, as otherwise it would make only leaves. even so the exceptional fertility of the soil returns crops with a fifty-fold increase, and to more industrious farmers even with a hundredfold. nor is there any difficulty in the method of letting the ground be under water as long as possible, in order that its extremely rich and substantial fertility may be diluted. but the euphrates and the tigris do not carry mud on to the land in the same way as the nile does in egypt, nor does the soil itself produce vegetation; but nevertheless its fertility is so great that a second crop grows of its own accord in the following year from the seeds trodden in by the reapers. this extreme difference of soil prompts me to distribute my description of the various kinds of land among the different crops. 