ploughing also has rules of its own: do not touch a muddy soil. plough with all your might. break the ground before you plough. the value of the last process is that turning the turf kills the roots of the weeds. some people recommend beginning to break the ground at all events at the spring equinox. land ploughed once in spring is called 'spring-worked land', from the fact of the date; spring-working is equally necessary in the case of fallow land - fallow is land sown every other year. oxen when going to plough should be harnessed to the yoke as tightly as possible, to make them hold their heads up when ploughing - that makes them least liable to gall their necks; if the ploughing is in between trees and vines, they must wear basket-work muzzles to prevent their nibbling off the tenderest of the buds; a small billhook should be hung on the plough-tail to cut through roots with - this is better than letting the plough tear them up, which is a strain on the oxen; when ploughing finish the row and do not halt in the middle while taking breath. it is a fair day's work to break an acre with a nine-inch furrow and to plough over again an acre and a half, given an easy soil, but otherwise, to break half an acre and plough over one acre, since nature has appointed laws even for the labour of animals. every field must be worked with straight furrows and then with slanting furrows as well. hilly ground is ploughed only across the slope of the hill, but with the share pointing now up hill and now down; a and man has such capacity for labour that he can actually perform the function of oxen - at all events mountain races dispense with this animal and do their ploughing with hoes. unless a ploughman bends his back to his work he goes crooked - the charge of 'prevarication' is a metaphorical term transferred to public life from ploughing: anyhow it must be avoided in the department of its origin. the share should be cleaned now and then with a stick tipped with a scraper. the ridges between two furrows should not be left untidy, so that clods of earth may not fall off them. a field that needs harrowing after the crop has been sown is badly ploughed: the ground will only have been worked properly where it is impossible to tell in which of two opposite directions the share went. it is also usual to make intermediate runnels by means of a larger furrow, if the place requires this, for these to draw off the water into the ditches. 