there follows the question postponed to this place, a question that needs very careful consideration — that of the proper date for sowing the crops; it is in a large degree connected with astronomy, and consequently we will begin by setting out the views of all authors in regard to it. hesiod, the leader of mankind in imparting agricultural instruction, gave only one date for sowing, to begin at the setting of the pleiades; for he wrote in the greek country of boeotia where, as we have said, that is the custom for sowing. it is agreed among the most careful observers that, as in the propagation of birds and animals, so with the earth, there exist certain impulses leading to conception; and the greeks define this as the period when the earth is warm and moist. virgil prescribes sowing bare and emmer wheats after the setting of the pleiades, barley between the autumnal equinox and mid-winter, but vetch and calavances and lentils at the setting of bootes; with the consequence that it is important to ascertain the exact dates of the rising and setting of these and other stars. there are some who advise sowing before the setting of the pleiades, at all events in dry land and in the provinces with a warm climate, because the seed keeps safely, there being no damp to make them rot, and within a day after the next fall of rain they break out; while others recommend sowing immediately after the setting of the pleiades, because about a week later rains follow; and some advise beginning to sow at the autumnal equinox in cold places, but later in warm districts, so that the crops may not be too far forward before winter. but it is universally agreed that sowing must not be done in the period of midwinter, for the convincing reason that winter seeds when sown before midwinter break out in a week, but if sown after it scarcely begin to appear in four weeks. there are some who hasten matters on and put forward the dictum that, while sowing in haste often proves deceptive, sowing late always does. others on the opposite side think that sowing even in spring is preferable to sowing in a bad autumn, and that if this is necessary it should be done between the arrival of the west wind a and the spring equinox. some people ignore nice points of meteorology and fix limits by the calendar: flax, oats and poppy in spring and up to the feast of the five days, a practice even now observed in the districts north of the po, beans and common wheat in november, emmer wheat at the end of september on to october 15, and others after that date on to november 1. thus these latter writers pay no attention to nature, while the previous set pay too much, and consequently their elaborate theorizing is all in the dark, as the issue lies between countrymen and literary, not merely astronomical, pundits! and it must be confessed that these matters do chiefly depend on the weather — as in fact virgil enjoins first before all else to learn the winds and the habits of the stars, and to observe them just in the same way as they are observed for navigation. it is an arduous and a vast aspiration — to succeed in introducing the divine science of the heavens to the ignorance of the rustic, but it must be attempted, owing to the vast benefit it confers on life. nevertheless we must first submit to contemplation the difficulties of astronomy, which even experts have been conscious of, in order that subsequently our minds may more happily pass on from the study of the heavens and discern the actual events of the past whose future occurrence cannot be known in advance. 