this space of time is an extremely busy period for farmers and specially toilsome, and it is one as to which they are particularly liable to go wrong - the fact being that they are not summoned to their tasks on the day on which the west wind ought to blow but on which it actually does begin to blow. this must be watched for with sharp attention, and is a signal possessed by a day in that month that is observable without any deception or doubt whatever, if one gives close attention. we have stated in volume two the quarter in which that wind blows and the exact point from which it comes, and we shall speak about it rather more fully a little later. in the meantime, starting from the day, whichever it is, on which it begins to blow - not however necessarily february 8, but whether before that date, when the spring is early, or afterwards, when winter goes on after that day, countrymen should find themselves torn between innumerable anxieties and should finish off all the primary tasks which cannot be postponed. three-month wheat must be sown, vines pruned by the method we have stated, olives attended to, fruit-trees planted and grafted, vineyards dug over, seed-plots arranged and others restored, reeds, willows and brooms planted and cut, and elms, poplars and ash trees planted in the manner stated above. then it is also suitable to weed the cornfields and hoe the winter crops, and especially emmer wheat; for the latter there is a definite rule, to hoe when it has begun to have four blades showing, but in the case of beans not before they have three leaves out, and even then they should be cleaned with a light hoe rather than dug over, and anyway when they flower they must not be touched during the first fortnight. you should only hoe barley in dry weather. you should have your pruning finished by the equinox. an acre of vineyard takes four hands to prune, and tying up the vines on a tree takes one hand for each fifteen trees. this is the time moreover for kitchen-gardens and rose-beds to be attended to, a subject which will be dealt with separately in the following books, and it is also the time for landscape gardening; and then is the best occasion for making ditches. the ground is now opened for future operations, as virgil in particular advises, to allow the sun thoroughly to dry the clods. the more useful opinion recommends ploughing only ground of medium quality in the middle of spring, because in a rich soil the furrows are at once seized on by weeds and in a thin soil the spells of heat that follow dry them up and take away all moisture from the seeds that are to come; there is no question that it is best to plough land of these sorts in the autumn. 