we will borrow a commencement from cato: 'the agricultural class produces the bravest men, the most gallant soldiers and the citizens least given to evil designs.' 'in buying a farm do not be too eager. in rural affairs do not be sparing of trouble, least of all in buying land'; a bad purchase is always repented. those about to buy land should before all things give an eye to 'the water supply, the road, and the neighbour'. each of these rules admits of an important and unquestionable interpretation. cato advises that in regard to the neighbouring farmers further consideration should be given to the question how prosperous they look; 'for in a good district', he says, 'the people look in good condition'. atilius regulus who was twice consul during the punic war a used to say that it is a mistake to buy unhealthy land in the most fertile districts or the most healthy land in districts that have been worked out. the healthy quality of the district is not always disclosed by the complexion of the inhabitants, because people can carry on even in very unhealthy localities when they are used to them. moreover some districts are healthy during portions of the year, but no place is really salubrious unless it is healthy all the year round. 'land with which the owner has a continual struggle is bad land.' cato bids us as one of the first points to see that the land, if in the position stated above has a good quality of its own, that there is a supply of labour near, and a thriving town, routes for carrying produce away by water or by road, and that the farm is furnished with good buildings and has been well farmed — it is in this that i notice most people make a mistake, as they think that the purchaser scores from slack farming on the part of the previous landlord, whereas nothing is a greater source of loss than a farm that has been neglected. for this reason cato says that it is better to purchase from a good landlord, and that the lessons to be learnt from others should not be despised, and that it is the same with land as with a human being — it may make large profits, yet if it also involves large expenses, not much balance is left over. in cato's opinion the most profitable in part of a farm is a vineyard — and not without reason, since above everything he has been cautious as to the matter of outlay of money — and next he puts kitchen-gardens well supplied with water; and this is true, if they are near a town — and the old word for 'meadows' means 'land ready to hand'. cato moreover when asked what was the most reliable source of profit said, 'good pasture', and when asked what was the next best, said, 'fairly good pasture the most important point in considering profit being that the crop that was going to cost the smallest outlay in expenses was the crop most to be recommended. this is a question decided differently in different places, in accordance with the suitability of the various localities; and the same applies to cato's dictum that a farmer ought to be a good seller; and that he should begin to plant his farm without delay, in his youth, but only build when the land is fully under cultivation, and even then go slowly (and the best course is, as the common saying was, to profit by the folly of other people provided however that keeping up houses is not allowed to be a burden on your estate); but that the owner who is well housed should nevertheless keep visiting his farm rather frequently — and it is a true saying that 'the master's face does more good than the back of his head'. 