the life of men in early times was rude and illiterate; but nevertheless it will be found that mere observation was not less ingenious among them than theory is now. there were three seasons which they had to fear for their crops, and on this account they instituted the holidays and festivals of robigalia, floralia and vinaha. numa in the eleventh year of his reign established the feast of robigalia, which is 710-672 b.c. now kept on april 25, because that is about the time when the crops are liable to be attacked by mildew. varro has given this date as fixed by the sun occupying the tenth degree of the bull, as theory then stated; but the true explanation is that on one or other (according to the latitude of the various observers) of the four days from the twenty-ninth day after the spring equinox to april 28 the dog sets, a constellation of violent influence in itself and the setting of which is also of necessity preceded by the setting of the little dog. so the same people in 238 bc in obedience to the sibyl's oracles, instituted the floralia on april 23, in order that all vegetation might shed its blossom favourably. this day is dated by varro at the sun's entering the 14th degree of the bull; consequently if full moon falls within these four days, the crops and all the vegetation then in flower will inevitably suffer injury. the first vinaliaf established in former days on april 23 for tasting the wines, has no reference to the fruits of the earth, nor yet have the festivals so far mentioned to the vines and olives, because their sprouting begins at the rise of the pleiades, on may 10, as we have explained. this is another four-day period in which it is desirable that the fields may not be fouled by dew — for the cold constellation of arcturus, setting the next day, nips them — and much more is it desirable that a full moon may not come at this period. on june 2 the eagle for a second time rises in the evening, and this is a critical day for olives and vines in blossom if a full moon coincides with it. for my own part i am also inclined to consider that june 24, the solstice, is in a similar case, and also the rising of the dog 23 days after the solstice, though only if the moon's conjunction falls then, as harm is done by the extreme heat and the young grapes are ripened prematurely into a hard knob. again, harm is done by a full moon on july 4, when the little dog rises for egypt, or at all events on july 17 when it rises for italy, and similarly between july 20, when the eagle sets, and july 23. the festival of the second vinalia, kept on august 19, has no connexion with these influences. varro fixes it at the time when the lyre is beginning to set in the morning, which he holds to be the beginning of autumn and a holiday established for propitiating the weather; but at the present day observation shows that the lyre sets on august 8. 