we have said that the summer solstice comes round on june 24, in the eighth degree of the crab. this is an important turning-point of the year, an important matter in the world. from midwinter to this point the days continually grow longer. the sun itself climbing northward for six months and having scaled the heights of heaven, from that goal begins to slope and to descend towards the south, proceeding for another six months to increase the length of the nights and to subtract from the measurement of the day. from this point onward is the time for plucking and collecting the various successive crops and for preparing against the fierce cruelty of winter, and to have this change marked with unmistakable signs was only nature's duty; consequently she has placed such signs in the very hands of the farmers, and has bidden the foliage to turn round on that very day and to indicate that the heavenly body has completed its course — and not the leaves of the forests and of trees distant from human habitation, so compelling those seeking the signs to have to go into remote valleys and mountains, nor yet again the foliage of the trees of the city and those that are only grown by the ornamental gardener, albeit these may be seen at a country house as well; but nature turns round the foliage of the olive that confronts us at every step, of the lime-tree which we employ for a thousand practical purposes, and even of the white poplar that is married to the vines. nor is that yet sufficient. 'you have the elm,' she says, 'that is enriched with the vine; i will turn the foliage of this tree also. you strip its leaves for fodder, or prune them off: look at these, and you have a sign of the heavens, for they look towards another quarter of the sky than that towards which they faced yesterday. you use the willow to make withes for binding all things — the lowliest of trees, you yourself are a whole head taller: its leaves also i will turn round. why complain that you are a mere peasant? it is not owing to me that you do not understand the heavens and know the things thereof. i will bestow a sign upon your ears also: only listen to the cooing of the ring-doves, and beware of thinking that midsummer is past until you have seen the dove sitting on her nest.' 