in old days the vines were never thought to be ripe for the vintage before the equinox, but nowadays i notice they are commonly pulled at any time; consequently we must also specify the times for this by their signs and indications. the rules are as follows: 'do not pick a bunch of grapes when they are warm' - that is during unbroken dry weather, with no rain in between; 'do not pick a bunch of grapes if wet with dew', that is if there has been dew in the night, and not before it has been dispelled by the sun. 'begin the vintage when the grape-shoot begins to droop down to the stem, or when after a grape has been removed from a cluster it has been clearly noticed that the gap does not fill up and that the grapes are no longer getting bigger.' it is a very great advantage for the vintage to coincide with a crescent moon. one pressing ought to fill twenty wine-skins: that is a fair basis. a single wine press is enough for twenty wine-skins and vats to serve twenty acres of vineyard. some press the grapes with a single press-beam, but it pays better to use a pair, however large the single beams may be. it is length that matters in the case of the beams, not thickness; but those of ample width press better. in old days people used to drag down the press-beams with ropes and leather straps, and by means of levers: but within the last hundred years the greek pattern of press has been invented, with the grooves of the upright beam running spirally, some makers fitting the tree with a star, but with others the tree raises with it boxes of stones, an arrangement which is very highly approved. within the last twenty years a plan has been invented to use small presses and a smaller pressing-shed, with a shorter upright beam running straight down into the middle, and to press down the drums placed on top of the grape-skins with the whole weight and to pile a heap of stones above the presses. this is also the time for gathering fruit; one should watch when any falls off owing to ripeness and not because of windy weather. this is also the season for pressing out the lees of wine and for boiling down grape-juice, on a night when there is no moon, or, if done in the daytime, it should be at full moon, or on any other days either before the moon rises or after it sets; and the grapes should not be obtained from a young vine nor from one growing on marshy ground; and only a ripe bunch should be used. it is thought that if wood is brought in contact with the vessel, the liquor gets a burnt and smoky flavour. the proper time for the vintage is the period of 41 days from the equinox to the setting of the pleiades; we meet with a wise saying of growers who hold that from that day onward it is no good at all to tar a cold wine-butt. still, before now i have seen vintagers at work even on the first of january owing to shortage of vats, and must being stored in tanks, or last year's wine being poured out of the casks to make room for new wine of doubtful quality. this is not so often due to an overabundant crop as to slackness, or else to avarice lying in wait for a rise in prices. the public-spirited method of an honest head of a household is to use the output of each year as it comes; and this is also quite equally the most profitable plan. as for the other matters relating to wines enough has been said already, and also it has been stated that as soon as the vintage is done the olives must at once be picked; and we have given the facts concerning olive-growing and the operations that must be done after the setting of the pleiades. 