all cutting, gathering and trimming is done with less injury to the trees and plants when the moon is waning than when it is waxing. manure must not be touched except when the moon is waning, but manuring should chiefly be done at new moon or at half moon. geld hogs, steers, rams and kids when the moon is waning. put eggs under the hen at the new moon. make ditches at full moon, in the night-time. bank up the roots of trees at full moon. in damp land sow seed at the new moon and in the four. days round that time. they also recommend giving corn and leguminous grains an airing and storing them away towards the end of the moon, making seed-plots when the moon is above the horizon, and treading out grapes when it is below it, as well as felling timber and the other operations which we have specified in their proper places. nor is the observation of the moon specially easy, and we have already spoken of it in volume 2; but to give what even countrymen may be able to understand: whenever the moon is seen at sunset and in the earlier hours of the night, she will be waxing and will appear to be cut in half, but when she rises at sunset opposite the sun, so that sun and moon are visible at the same time, then it will be full moon. when she rises with the sunrise and withholds her light in the earlier hours of the night and prolongs it into daytime, she will be waning and will again show only half; but when she has ceased to be visible she is in conjunction, the period designated 'between moons'. during the conjunction she will be above the horizon as long as the sun is and during the whole of the first day, on the second day ten and a quarter twelfths of an hour of the night, and then on the third day and on to the 15th with the same fractions of an hour added in progression. on the 15th day she will be above the horizon all night and also below it all day. on the 16th she will remain below the horizon ten and a quarter twelfths of the first hour of the night, and she will go on adding the same fraction of an hour every day in succession until the period of conjunction, and will add from the daytime to the last parts of the night above the horizon as much as she subtracts from its first parts when below the earth. she will complete thirty revolutions in alternate months but subtract one from that number every alternate month. this will be the theory of the course of the moon; that of the winds is somewhat more intricate. 