the remaining rules will be given in their proper places, according as they belong to the various kinds of agriculture. in the meantime we will not omit the principles of general application which occur to us, and particularly that most humane and most profitable advice of cato to do your best to win the esteem of your neighbours. cato gives reasons for this advice, but for our part we imagine that nobody can doubt what the reasons are. also one of cato's first pieces of advice is a warning to keep your farm hands in good condition. that in agriculture nothing must be done too late is a rule universally held, as is a second rule that each thing must be done at its own time, and a third that it is no use calling back lost opportunities. the malediction uttered by cato against rotten land has been pointed out at sufficient length; though he is never tired of declaring that whatever can be done by means of an ass costs the least money. bracken dies in two years if you do not let it make leaf, the best way to kill it is to knock off the stalk with a stick when it is budding, as the juice trickling down out of the fern itself kills the roots. it is also said that ferns plucked up about midsummer do not spring up again, nor do those cut with a reed or ploughed up with a reed placed on the ploughshare. similarly they also advise ploughing up reed with bracken placed on the ploughshare. a field grown over with rushes should be turned up with the spade after having been first broken with two-pronged forks. brushwood is best removed by setting fire to it. when land is too damp it is very useful to cut ditches through it and drain it; and in clayey places to leave the ditches open, but in looser soil to strengthen them with hedges or let them have theft sides sloping and on a slant; and to block up some and make them run into other larger and wider ones, and, if opportunity offers, to pave them with flint or gravel; and to stay their mouths with two stones, one on each side, and roof them over with another stone on top. - democritus has put forward a method of clearing away forest by soaking lupin-flower for one day in hemlock juice and sprinkling it on the roots of the trees. 