at rome at all events a garden was in itself a poor man's farm; the lower classes got their market-supplies from a garden — how much more harmless their fare was then! it gives more satisfaction, forsooth, to dive into the depth of the sea and seek for the various sorts of oysters at the cost of a shipwreck, and to fetch birds from beyond the river rion, birds which not even legendary terrors can protect — in fact these actually make them more prized! or to go fowling for other birds in numidia and among the tombs of ethiopia, or to fight with wild beasts, and, in hunting for game for someone else to devour, to be devoured oneself! but i protest, how little does garden produce cost, how adequate it is for pleasure and for plenty, did we not meet with the same scandal in this as in everything else! we could no doubt have tolerated that choice fruits forbidden to the poor because of their flavour or their size or their portentous shape should be grown, that wines should be kept to mature with age and robbed of their virility by being passed through strainers, and that nobody should live so long as not to be able to drink vintages older than himself, and that luxury should also have long ago devised for itself a malted porridge made from the crops and should live only on the marrow of the grain, as well as on the elaborations and modellings of the bakers' shops — one kind of bread for my lords and another for the common herd, the yearly produce graded in so many classes right down to the lowest of the lout: but have distinctions been discovered even in herbs, and has wealth established grades even in articles of food that sell for a single copper? the ordinary public declares that even among vegetables some kinds are grown that are not for them, even a kale being fattened up to such a size that there is not room for it on a poor man's table. nature had made asparagus to grow wild, for anybody to gather at random; but lo and behold! now we see a cultivated variety, and ravenna produces heads weighing three to a pound. alas for the monstrosities of gluttony! it would surprise us if cattle were not allowed to feed on thistles, but thistles are forbidden to the lower orders! even the water-supply is divided into classes, and the power of money has made distinctions in the very elements. some people drink snow, others ice, and turn what is the curse of mountain regions into pleasure for their appetite. coolness is stored up against the hot weather, and plans are devised to keep snow cold for the months that are strangers to it. other people first boil their water and then bring even that to a winter temperature. assuredly mankind wants nothing to be as nature likes to have it. shall even a particular kind of plant be reared to serve only the rich man's table? can nobody have been warned by the sacred mount or the aventine hill, and the secessions of the angry commons? doubtless the provision-market will level up persons whom money divides into classes. and so, i vow, no impost at rome bulked larger than the market dues in the outcry of the common people, who denounced them before all the chiefs of state until the tax on this commodity was remitted, and it was discovered that there was no method of rating that was more productive or safer and less governed by chance as this payment is trusted to the poorest, the surety is in the soil, and the revenues lie in open daylight, just as does the surface of their land, rejoicing in the sky whatever be its aspect. 