radishes consist of an outer skin and a cartilage, and with many of them the skin is even thicker than the bark of some kinds of trees. they have an extremely pungent flavour, which varies in proportion to the thickness of the skin. the other parts as well are sometimes of a woody substance. they have a remarkable power of causing flatulence and eructation; consequently they are a vulgar article of diet, at all events if cabbage is eaten immediately after them, though if the radish itself is eaten with over-ripe olives, the eructation caused is less frequent and less offensive. in egypt the radish is held in remarkable esteem because it produces oil, which they make from its seed. the people are very fond of sowing radish seed if opportunity offers, because they make more profit from it than from corn and have a smaller duty to pay on it, and because no plant there yields a larger supply of oil. the greeks have made three kinds of radish, distinguished by difference of the leaves — the wrinkled a radish, the smooth radish and third the wild kind; though the last has smooth leaves, they are shorter and round, and numerous and bushy; the taste of this radish is however rough, and it acts like a drug with a purgative effect. among the kinds mentioned before however there is also a difference arising from the seed, since some produce an inferior seed and some an extremely small one; but these defects only apply to the wrinkled-leaf variety. our own people have made other classes — the monte compatri radish, named from its locality, a long and semi-transparent radish, and another shaped like a turnip which they call syrian radish, about the sweetest and most tender of any, and exceptionally able to stand the winter. it appears however to have been imported from syria only lately, since it is not found mentioned in the authorities; still, it lasts through the whole of the winter. there is also one wild variety, called by the greeks cerais, in the pontus country armor, or by other people leuce, and by our nation armoracia; this radish grows more leaves than root. but in testing the value of all kinds of radishes most attention is given to the stems, as those of a harsh flavour have stems that are rounded and thicker and grooved with long channels, and the leaves themselves are more crinkled and have prickly corners. 