belonging to the class of cartilaginous plants and growing on the surface of the ground is the cucumber, a delicacy for which the emperor tiberius had a remarkable partiality; in fact there was never a day on which he was not supplied with it, as his kitchen-gardeners had cucumber beds mounted on wheels which they moved out into the sun and then on wintry days withdrew under the cover of frames glazed with transparent stone. moreover it is actually stated in the writings of early greek authors that cucumber seed should be soaked for two days in milk mixed with honey before it is sown, in order to make the cucumbers sweeter. they grow in any shape they are forced to take; in italy green ones of the smallest possible size are popular, but the provinces like the largest ones possible, and of the colour of wax or else dark. african cucumbers are the most prolific, and those of moesia the largest. when they are exceptionally big they are called pumpkins. cucumbers when swallowed remain in the stomach till the next day and cannot be digested with the rest of one's food, but nevertheless they are not extremely unwholesome. they have by nature a remarkable repugnance for oil, and an equal fondness for water; even when they have been cut from the stem, they creep towards water a moderate distance away, but on the contrary they retreat from oil, or if something is in their way or if they are hanging up, they grow curved and twisted. this may be observed to take place even in a single night, because if a vessel with water is put underneath them they descend towards it a hand's breadth before the next morning, but if oil is similarly near they will be found curved into crooked shapes. also if their flower is passed down into a tube they grow to a remarkable length. curious to say, just recently a new form of cucumber has been produced in campania, shaped like a quince. i am told that first one grew in this shape by accident, and that later a variety was established grown from seed obtained from this one; it is called apple-pumpkin. cucumbers of this kind do not hang from the plant but grow of a round shape lying on the ground; they have a golden colour. a remarkable thing about them, beside their shape, colour and smell, is that when they have ripened, although they are not hanging down they at once separate from the stalk. columella gives a plan of his own for getting a supply of cucumbers all the year round - to transplant the largest blackberry bush available to a warm, sunny place, and about the spring equinox to cut it back, leaving a stump two inches long; and then to insert a cucumber seed in the pith of the bramble and bank up fine earth and manure round the roots, so that they may withstand the cold. the greeks have produced three kinds of cucumbers, the spartan, the sevtalic and the boeotian; of these it is said that only the spartan variety is fond of water. some people tell us to steep cucumber seed in the plant called cidia pounded up before sowing it, which will produce a cucumber having no seed. 