the seeds of most plants are round, but those of some oblong; in a few they are foliated and broad, for instance orage, in some narrow and grooved, for instance cummin. they differ in colour as well, dark or lighter, and also in woody hardness. the seeds of radishes, mustard and turnip are contained in a pod; the seed of coriander, dill, fennel and curnxnin has no cover, that of blite, beet, orage and basil is covered with a skin, while that of lettuces is wrapped in down. no seed is more prolific than basil; they recommend sowing it with curses and imprecations. to make it come up more abundantly; when it. is sown the earth is rammed down. also people sowing cummin pray for it not to come up. it is difficult for seeds contained in a pod to get dry, particularly basil, and consequently they are all dried artificially to make them fertile. in any case plants grow better when the seed is sown in heaps than when it is scattered; indeed it is on that principle that they sow leek and parsley tied up in strips of rag, and also before sowing parsley they make a hole with a dibble into which they put dung. all plants grow either from seed or from slips, or some both from seed and from cuttings, as rue, wild marjoram, basil - for people lop off the top of this plant too when it has reached the height of a palm; and some plants grow both from seed and from a root, as onion, garlic, bulbs, and the perennials the roots of which stay alive. but with plants that grow from a root the root lives a long time and throws out shoots, for instance bulbs, long onions and squills. others make shrubby growth and without heads, for instance parsley and beet. when the stalk is cut back, nearly all plants except those which have not got a rough stem throw out fresh shoots, indeed basil, radish and lettuce put out new shoots that can be used; lettuce is thought to be even sweeter if grown from a fresh sprouting. anyway radish is more agreeable when its leaves have been stripped off before it runs to stalk. the same is also true in the case of turnips, for they likewise if banked up with earth after the leaves have been pulled off go on growing and last into summer. 