garlic is believed to be serviceable for making a number of medicaments, especially those used in the country. it is enveloped in very fine skins in entirely separate layers, and then consists of several kernels in a cluster, each of these also having a coat of its own; it has a pungent flavour, and the more kernels there were the more pungent it is. garlic as well as onions gives an offensive smell to the breath, though when boiled it causes no smell. the difference between the various kinds consists in the time they take to ripen - the early kind ripens in 60 days - and also in their size. ulpicum also comes in this class, the plant called by the greeks cyprian garlic, or by others antiscorodon; it holds a high rank among the dishes of the country people, particularly in africa, and it is larger than garlic; when beaten up in oil and vinegar it swells up in foam to a surprising size. some people say that ulpiciim and garlic must not be planted in level ground, and advise placing it in little mounds a yard apart like a chain of forts; there must be a space of four inches between the grains, and as soon as three leaves have broken out the plants must be hoed over: they grow larger the oftener they are hoed. when they begin to ripen, their stalks are pressed down into the earth and covered up: this prevents their making too lush foliage. in cold soils it pays better to plant in the spring than in autumn. moreover with all of these plants, to prevent their having an objectionable smell, it is advised to plant them when the moon is below the horizon and to gather them when it is in conjunction. the greek writer menander states that people eating garlic without taking these precautions can neutralize the smell by eating after it a beetroot roasted on the hot coals. some people think that the best time for planting both garlic and ulpicum is between the feast of the crossways and the feast of saturn. garlic can also be grown from seed, but it is a slow process, as the head only makes the size of a leek in the first year and divides into cloves in the second year, making full growth in the third year; and some people think that this variety of garlic is a finer kind. it must not be allowed to run to seed, but the stalks must be twisted up for purposes of propagation, so that it may form a stronger head. but if garlic or onions are wanted to keep for some time, their heads should be soaked in warm salt water; that will make them last longer and will render them better for use, though barren in seeding. others are content to begin by hanging them up over burning coal, and think that this expedient is quite sufficient to prevent their sprouting, which it is well known that garlic and onions do even when out of the ground, and after enlarging their small stalk they wither away. also some people think that garlic keeps best when stored in chaff. there is also another garlic called alum that grows self-sown in the fields, which, after having been boiled to prevent its shooting up again, is scattered about as a protection against the ravages of birds that eat up the seeds, and the birds that swallow it at once become stupefied, and if you wait a little, go completely unconscious and can be caught by hand. there is also a wild kind called bear's garlic, with a similar smell, which has a very small head and large leaves. 