next after these in natural properties are the bulbs, which cato particularly recommends for cultivation, specially praising the megarian kind. but the most famous bulb is the squill, although it naturally serves as a drug and is used for increasing the sourness of vinegar; and no other bulb is of larger size, just as also no other has a more powerful pungency. there are two kinds used for medicine, the male squill with white leaves and the female squill with dark leaves; and there is also a third kind, agreeable as an article of diet, called epimenides's squill — this has a narrower leaf with a less pungent taste. all produce a very large quantity of seed, though they come up more quickly if grown from the bulbs that shoot out round their sides; and to make them grow bigger, the leaves, which in this plant are of a large size, are bent down in a circle round them and covered with soil, so causing the heads to draw all the juice into themselves. they grow wild in very large quantities in the balearic islands and iviza, and throughout the spanish provinces. the philosopher pythagoras wrote a whole book about them, including an account of their medicinal properties, which we shall record in the next volume. the remaining kinds of bulbs differ in colour and size and in flavour, some being eaten raw, for instance in the crimea; next after these the ones that grow in africa are most highly spoken of, and then those of anulia. the greeks have distinguished the following kinds — bolbine, setanion, opition, cyix, aegilops and sisyrinchion; the last possesses the remarkable property that its bottom roots grow in winter, but in the springtime, when the violet has appeared, these diminish while the actual bulb, on the other hand, afterwards begins to swell out. among the varieties of bulb there is also the one that in egypt they call the arum, which is very near to the squill in size and to the sorrel in foliage, with a straight stalk a yard long of the thickness of a walking-stick, and a root of softer substance, which can even be eaten raw. bulbs are dug up before the beginning of spring, or else they at once go off in quality; it is a sign that they are ripe then the leaves become dry at the lower end. the rather green ones are disapproved of, as also are the long and the small ones, whereas those of a reddish colour and rounder shape are praised, as also are those of the largest size. usually their top has a bitter taste and the middle parts are sweet. previous writers have stated that bulbs only grow from seed, but as a matter of fact they spring up of themselves in the plains near praeneste, and also in unlimited quantity in the country round durocortorum. 