of all cultivated vegetables asparagus needs the most delicate attention. its origin from wild asparagus has been fully explained, and how cato recommends growing it in reed-beds. there is also another kind less refined than garden asparagus but less pungent than the wild plant, which springs up in many places even in mountain districts; the plains of upper germany are full of it, the emperor tiberius not ineptly remarking that in that country a plant very like asparagus grows as a weed. in fact the kind that grows wild in the island of nisita off the coast of campania is deemed far the best asparagus there is. garden asparagus is grown from root-clumps, for it is a plant with a large amount of root and it buds very deep down. when the thin stem first shoots above ground the plant is green, and the shoot while making a longer stalk simultaneously tops off into grooved protuberances. it can also be grown from seed. no subject included by cato is treated more carefully, and it is the last topic of his book, showing that it was a novelty just creeping in. his advice is to dig over a place with a damp or heavy soil and sow the seeds six inches apart each way, so as to avoid treading on them; and moreover to put two or three seeds in each hole, made with a dibble along a line — obviously at that time asparagus was only grown from seed. he recommends doing this after the vernal equinox, using plenty of dung, frequently cleaning with the hoe, taking care not to pull up the asparagus with the weeds, in the first year protecting the plants against winter with straw, uncovering them in spring and hoeing and stubbing the ground; and setting fire to the plants in the third spring. the earlier asparagus is burnt off, the better it thrives, and consequently it is specially suitable for growing in reed-beds, which burn speedily. he also advises not hoeing the beds before the asparagus springs up, for fear of disturbing the roots in the process of hoeing; next plucking off the asparagus heads close to the root, because if they are broken off, the plant runs to stalk and dies off; going on plucking them till they run to seed (which begins to mature towards springtime) and burning them off, and when the asparagus plants have appeared, hoeing them over again and manuring them. nine years later, he says, when the plants are now old, they must be separated and the ground worked over and manured, and then they must be replanted with the tufts spaced out a foot apart. moreover he expressly specifies using sheep's dung, as other manure produces weeds. no method of cultivation tried later has proved to be more useful, except that they now sow about february 13 by digging in the seed in heaps in little trenches, usually preparing the seed by soaking it in dung; as a result of this process the roots twine together and form tufts, which they plant out at spaces of a foot apart after the autumn equinox, the plants going on bearing for ten years. there is no soil that asparagus likes better than that of the kitchen-gardens at ravenna, as we have pointed out. i find it stated that corruda (which i take to be a wild asparagus, called by the greeks horminos or myacanthos as well as by other names) will also come up if pounded rams' horns are dug in as manure. 