but the nature of a great many springs is of remarkably high temperature, and this is found even on the ridges of the alps, and actually in the sea, for instance in the gulf of baiae between italy and the island of ischia, and in the river liris and many others. in fact fresh water may be drawn from the sea in a great many places, as at the chelidoniae islands and at aradus and in the gulf of cadiz. green grass grows in the hot springs of the patavini, frogs in those of pisa, fishes at vetulonia in etruria near the sea. a river in the district of casinum called scatebra is cold, and is fuller in summer; water voles are born in it, as they are in the stymphalis of arcadia. the fountain of jupiter at dodona, though it is cold and puts out torches dipped in it, sets them alight if they are brought near to it when they are out. the same spring always stops flowing at noon, on account of which it is called the ἀναπαυόμενον; later it rises again and towards midnight flows abundantly, thereafter gradually ceasing again. a cold spring in illyria sets fire to clothes spread out above it. the swamp of jupiter ammon is cold by day and hot at night. a spring in trogodytis called the fountain of the sun is sweet and very cold at midday, but then gradually warming, towards the middle of the night it becomes spoilt owing to its heat and bitter taste. the source of the po always dries up at midday in summer as if taking a siesta. a spring on the island of tenedos after midsummer always overflows from 9 to 12 p.m.; and the spring inopus on the island of delos sinks or rises in the same way as the nile and at the same times. on a small island in the sea at the mouth of the river timavus there are hot springs that grow larger and smaller with the rise and fall of the tide. in the pitinate district across the apennines the river novanus is always hot at midsummer and dried up at midwinter. in the district of falerii all the water makes oxen that drink it white. the melas in boeotia makes sheep black, the cephisus flowing from the same lake makes them white, the peneus again makes them black, and the river xanthus at ilium red, which gives the river its name. mares pastured on the plains watered by the river astaces on the black sea suckle their foals with black milk. the spring called neminie in the district of reate rises now in one place and now in another, indicating a change in the price of corn. a spring in the harbour at brindisi always supplies pure water for mariners. the slightly acid spring called lyncestis makes men tipsy, like wine; the same occurs in paphlagonia and in the territory of cales. 