the ancients noticed four winds in all, corresponding to the four quarters of the world (this is the reason why even homer mentions no more) — a dull-witted system, as it was soon afterwards considered; the following age added eight — this system on the other hand was too subtle and meticulous. their successors adopted a compromise, adding to the short list four winds from the long one. there are consequently two winds in each of the four quarters of the heaven: subsolanus blowing from the equinoctial sunrise (e.) and vulturnus from the winter sunrise (s.e.) — the former designated by the greeks apeliotes, the latter eurus; auster from the sun at midday (s.) and afriens from the winter sunset (s.w.) — named in greek notus and libs; favonius from the equinoctial sunset (w.), corus from the sunset at the solstice (n.w.) — these the greeks call zephyr and argestes; septentrio from the north and aquilo between him and sunrise at the solstice (n.e.) — called in greek aparctias and boreas. the more numerous scheme had inserted four between these: thrascias (n.n.w.) in the space between septentrio (n.) and the sunset at the solstice (n.w.) and also caecias (e.n.e.) in the space between aquilo (n.e.) and the equinoctial sunrise (b.) on the side of the sunrise at the solstice, and phoenix (s.s.e.) in the space between winter sunrise (s.e.) and midday (s.), and also between libs (s.w.) and notus (s.) the combination of the two, libonotus (s.s.w.), midway between midday (s.) and winter sunset (s.w.). nor is this the end, inasmuch as others have also added one named meses between boreas (n.e.) and caecias (e.n.e.), and euronotus between eurus (s.e.) and notus (s.). there are also certain winds peculiar to particular races, which do not go outside a special region, e.g. the athenians have sciron, slightly diverging from argestes (n.w.), a name unknown to the rest of greece — elsewhere the same breeze is called olympias: customarily all these names are taken to denote argestes. some people call caecias (e.n.e.) hellespontias, and others have other variants for these names. similarly in the province of narbonne the most famous of the winds is circius (w.n.w.), which is inferior to none other at all in force and which usually carries a vessel right across the ligurian sea to ostia; the same wind is not only unknown in the remaining quarters of the sky, but it does not even touch vienne, a city of the same province, a few miles before reaching which this mighty wind is checked by the obstacle of a moderate ridge of hills. fabianus asserts that south winds also do not penetrate egypt — which reveals the law of nature that even winds have their prescribed limits as well as seasons. 