accordingly the spring opens the seas to voyagers; at its beginning the west winds soften the wintry heaven, when the sun occupies the 25th degree of aquarius; the date of this is feb. 8. this also practically applies to all the winds whose positions i shall give afterwards, although every leap-year they come a day earlier, but they keep the regular rule in the period that follows. certain persons give the name chelidonias to the west wind on the 19th february, owing to the appearance of the swallow, but some call it ornithias, from the arrival of the birds on the 71st day after the shortest day, when it blows for nine days. opposite to the west wind is the wind that we have called subsolanus (e.). the rise of the pleiades in the same degrees of taurus on may 10 brings summer; it is a period of south wind, auster, the opposite of septentrio. but in the hottest period of summer the dog-star rises, when the sun is entering the first degree of leo - this day is july 17. the dog-star's rise is preceded for about eight days by north-east winds: these are called the forerunners. but two days after his rising the north-east winds begin again, and continue blowing steadily for 30 days; these are called etesian or annual winds. they are believed to be softened by the sun's warmth being reinforced by the heat of the star; and they are the most regular of any of the winds. they are followed in turn by south winds, continuing to the rise of areturus, which occurs 40 days before the autumnal equinox. with the equinox begins the north-west wind; this, the opposite of volturnus, marks the beginning of autumn. about 44 days after the autumnal equinox the setting of the pleiades marks the beginning of winter, which it is customary to date on november 11; this is the period of the winter aquilo, which is very unlike the summer one mentioned above; it is opposite to the south-west wind. but for six days before the shortest day and six days after it the sea calms down for the breeding of the halcyons from which these days derive their name. the rest of the time there is wintry weather. however, not even the fury of the storms closes the sea; pirates first compelled men by the threat of death to rush into death and venture on the winter seas, but now avarice exercises the same compulsion. 