the actually coldest winds are those that we have stated to blow from the north, and their neighbour corus (n.w.); these check the other winds and also drive away the clouds. the southwest and especially the south are for italy the damp winds; it is said that on the black sea the east-north-east also attracts clouds. the north-west and south-east are dry, except when they are falling. the north-east and north are snow winds; the north brings hailstorms, and so does the north-west. the south wind is hot, the south-east and west warm; the latter are also drier than the east wind, and in general all the northerly and westerly winds are drier than the southerly and easterly. the healthiest of all is the north wind; the south is harmful, and more so when dry, perhaps because when damp it is colder; living creatures are believed to be less hungry when it is blowing. etesian winds usually cease at night and rise at eight o'clock in the morning; in spain and asia they are east winds, on the black sea north, and in other regions south. but they also begin to blow at midwinter then they are called the bird-winds), but more gently and only for a few days. two winds also change their nature with their geographical position: the south wind in africa is fine and the north-east cloudy. all the winds blow in their own turns, usually the one opposite to the one that ceases beginning. when those next to the ones falling rise, they go round from left to right a like the sun. the fourth moon usually decides about the course of the winds for the month. vessels by means of slacking sheets can sail in contrary directions with the same winds, so that collisions occur, usually at night, between ships on opposite tacks. the south wind causes larger waves than the northeast because the former being below blows from the bottom of the sea but the latter from the top; consequently earthquakes following south winds are specially destructive. the south wind is more violent at night and the north-east wind in the day-time; and easterly winds continue longer than westerly. north winds usually stop after blowing an odd number of days, an observation that holds good in many other departments of nature also: this is why the odd numbers are thought to be masculine. the sun both increases and reduces the force of the wind — the former when rising and setting, the latter at midday in summer seasons; consequently the winds are usually lulled at midday or midnight, because either excessive cold or excessive heat makes them slack. also winds are lulled by rain; but they are most to be expected from quarters where the clouds have broken, revealing a clear sky. 