for this reason i deem it a mark of human weakness to seek to discover the shape and form of god. whoever god is — provided there is a god — and in whatever region he is, he consists wholly of sense, sight and hearing, wholly of soul, wholly of mind, wholly of himself. to believe in gods without number, and gods corresponding to men's vices as well as to their virtues, like the goddesses of modesty, concord, intelligence, hope, honour, mercy and faith — or else, as democritus held, only two, punishment and reward, reaches an even greater height of folly. frail, toiling mortality, remembering its own weakness, has divided such deities into groups, so as to worship in sections, each the deity he is most in need of. consequently different races have different names for the deities, and we find countless deities in the same races, even those of the lower world being classified into groups, and diseases and also many forms of plague, in our nervous anxiety to get them placated. because of this there is actually a temple of fever consecrated by the nation on the palatine hill, and one of bereavement at the temple of the household deities, and an altar of misfortune on the esquiline. for this reason we can infer a larger population of celestials than of human beings, as individuals also make an equal number of gods on their own, by adopting their own private junos and genii; while certain nations have animals, even some loathsome ones, for gods, and many things still more disgraceful to tell of — swearing by rotten articles of food and other things of that sort. to believe even in marriages taking place between gods, without anybody all through the long ages of time being born as a result of them, and that some are always old and grey, others youths and boys, and gods with dusky complexions, winged, lame, born from eggs, living and dying on alternate days — this almost ranks with the mad fancies of children; but it passes all bounds of shamelessness to invent acts of adultery taking place between the gods themselves, followed by altercation and enmity, and the existence of deities of theft and of crime. for mortal to aid mortal — this is god; and this is the road to eternal glory: by this road went our roman chieftains, by this road now proceeds with heavenward step, escorted by his children, the greatest ruler of all time, his majesty vespasian, coming to the succour of an exhausted world. to enrol such men among the deities is the most ancient method of paying them gratitude for their benefactions. in fact the names of the other gods, and also of the stars that i have mentioned above, originated from the services of men: at all events who would not admit that it is the interpretation of men's characters that prompts them to call each other jupiter or mercury or other names, and that originates the nomenclature of heaven? that that supreme being, whatever it be, pays heed to man's affairs is a ridiculous notion. can we believe that it would not be defiled by so gloomy and so multifarious a duty? can we doubt it? it is scarcely pertinent to determine which is more profitable for the human race, when some men pay no regard to the gods at all and the regard paid by others is of a shameful nature: they serve as the lackeys of foreign ritual, and they carry gods on their fingers; also they pass sentence of punishment upon the monsters they worship, and devise elaborate viands for them; they subject themselves to awful tyrannies, so as to find no repose even in sleep; they do not decide on marriage or having a family or indeed anything else except by the command of sacrifices; others cheat in the very capitol and swear false oaths by jupiter who wields the thunderbolts — and these indeed make a profit out of their crimes, whereas the others are penalized by their religious observances. 