garlic has powerful properties, and is of great benefit against changes of water and of residence. it keeps off serpents and scorpions by its smell, and, as some have maintained, every kind of beast. it cures bites when drunk or eaten, or applied as ointment, being particularly efficacious against the haemorrhoids when taken with wine and brought up by vomiting. lest we be surprised that it is an antidote against the poisonous bite of the shrewmouse, it neutralizes aconite, which is also known by the name of pardalianehes ['panther-strangler.'] as well as henbane and dog-bites; for the wounds of the latter it is made into an ointment with honey. for the bites of serpents it is very efficacious to roast it with its own leaves and make a liniment by adding oil; also for bruises on the body, even if they have swollen into blisters. moreover, hippocrates thinks that garlic fumigations bring away the afterbirth; by its ash mixed with oil he used to restore to health running sores on the head. to asthmatics it is given cooked, though some have given it raw. diocles prescribed it wit centaury for dropsy, or in a split fig as a purge, a more efficient one being fresh garlic taken in neat wine with coriander; pounded garlic too has by some been given in milk to asthmatics. praxagoras again mixed it with wine as a remedy for the jaundice, and with oil and pottage for passion; the latter prescription he also used as a liniment for scrofula. the ancients used also to give it raw to madmen, diocles gave it well boiled for phrenitis. pounded and, drunk with vinegar and water it is useful as a gargle for quinsy. by three pounded heads with vinegar toothache is relieved, as it is by rinsing the teeth with a decoction, and inserting garlic itself into the hollow teeth. garlic juice, mixed with goose-grease, is also dropped into the ears. garlic, in drink or injected with vinegar and soda, checks phthiriasis and scurf, catarrhs likewise if boiled with milk, also beaten up or mixed with soft cheese; it relieves hoarseness also if taken thus, or in gruel of peas or beans. on the whole, however, it is more useful cooked than raw, boiled than roasted. thus prepared it is also more beneficial to the voice. when cooked in oxymel it expels tapeworms and other parasites of the intestines; in pottage it cures tenesmus. well boiled it is used as ointment for pains in the temples; cooked, and then beaten up with honey, it makes an ointment for blisters. for a cough a decoction is taken with stale grease, or with milk; or if there be also spitting of blood or pus, it is roasted under live ashes and taken with an equal part of honey. for sprains and ruptures it is used with salt and oil. with fat, however, it cures suspected tumours. mixed with sulphur and resin it draws the pus from fistulas, with pitch extracting even arrows. leprous sores, lichen and freckly eruptions are cleansed and cured by it and wild marjoram, or by a liniment made out of its ash with oil and fish-sauce. used in this way it is also good for erysipelas. burnt to ash and mixed with honey it brings back to the original colour parts that are black-and-blue or livid. it is believed that epilepsy too is cured by garlic taken in food and drink, and that one head of it, taken in a dry wine with an obolus of silphium shakes off a quartan ague. taken in another way, namely boiled in broken beans and eaten with food until health is restored, it cures a cough, and suppuration of the chest, however severe. it induces sleep also, and makes the body generally of a ruddier colour. it is believed to act as an aphrodisiac, when pounded with fresh coriander and taken in neat wine. its drawbacks are that it dulls the sight, causes flatulence, injures the stomach when taken too freely, and creates thirst. in addition, mixed with emmer-wheat and added to their food it is good for poultry to save them from the pip. beasts of burden are said to pass urine without pain, if their parts are treated with pounded garlic. 