the characteristics, however, common to the wild kinds are whiteness, a stem occasionally a cubit long, and a roughness on the stalk and on the leaves. of these kinds, one with round, short leaves is called by some hieracion (hawkweed), since hawks, by tearing it open and wetting their eyes with the juice, dispel poor vision when they have become conscious of it. the juice in all of them is white, in its properties, also, like that of the poppy; collected at harvest by cutting the stem, it is stored in new earthenware, being excellent for many purposes. with woman's milk it heals all eye-diseases — white ulcers, films, all wounds and inflammations, and especially dimness of sight. it is also applied to the eyes on wool for fluxes. the same juice purges the bowels if drunk in vinegar and water in doses not exceeding two oboli. drunk in wine it heals snakebites, as do its leaves and stalks when pounded and drunk in vinegar. they are applied as ointment to a wound, especially for the stings of scorpions; for those, however, of venomous spiders wine and vinegar are added. they also neutralise other poisons, except those which kill by suffocation, or those which hurt the bladder, white lead also being an exception. they are applied to the belly with honey and vinegar to clear away troubles of the bowels. the juice corrects difficulty in making water. cratenas prescribes it also for dropsy in doses of two oboli with vinegar and a cyathus of wine. some collect the juice of the cultivated lettuce also, but it is less efficacious. the special properties of lettuces, besides those already mentioned a of causing sleep, checking sexual desire, cooling a heated body, cleansing the stomach and making blood, are not few; it breaks up flatulence, calms belching, aids digestion without ever itself causing indigestion. no other article of diet has a greater power of both increasing appetite and also of diminishing it. in either case moderation of the amount taken is the reason; thus an immoderate amount loosens the bowels, while a moderate amount binds them. lettuces loosen thick phlegm, and, as some have put on record, clear the senses, being very useful to stomachs which are out of order. they are aided for these purposes by oboli of digestive, the mixer modifying the sharpness by the addition of a sweet wine until it is no greater than that of vinegar sauce, mixing with it, if the phlegm be thick, squill or wormwood wine; if a cough also be experienced, hyssop wine. lettuces are given with wild endive for coeliac affections and for hardness in the abdomen. white lettuce in great quantity is given to melancholic patients and for bladder troubles. praxagoras gave it also to patients with dysentery. it is good for fresh burns, if applied with salt before the blisters form. they cheek spreading ulcers, if applied at first with saltpetre, afterwards in wine. pounded they are applied in cases of erysipelas. the pounded stalks, added to pearl-barley and applied with cold water, soothe cramps and sprains, and eruptions of pimples when applied with wine and pearl-barley. in cholera also they have been given cooked in a pan, for which purpose the most beneficial are the bitter ones with the largest stems. some people too inject the lettuce milk. their stalks thoroughly boiled are said to be very beneficial to the stomach; likewise for sleep the summer lettuce especially, and the milky, bitter kind, which we have called meconis. this milk added to woman's milk is prescribed also as very useful for clearness of vision if the eyes and the head are bathed in good time, and likewise for eye troubles caused by chill. i find much other extravagant praise of lettuce: that with attic honey it is as good as southernwood for chest complaints; that menstruation is regulated by its use as food; that the seed of cultivated lettuce is given for scorpion stings; that the crushed seed taken in wine prevents libidinous dreams; that noxious waters do not harm those who eat lettuce. some however have maintained that when eaten too often they impair the eyesight. 