there are no wild onions. cultivated onions, by the running caused by the mere smell, is a cure for feebleness of vision; an even better cure is to apply to the eye some of the juice. onions are also said to induce sleep, and chewed with bread to heal sores in the mouth; fresh onions applied in vinegar, or dry with honey and wine, dog-bites, provided that the bandage is taken off three days after. applied in the same way they also heal abrasions. an onion cooked in ash many have applied with barley flour to fluxes of the eyes, and to sores of the genitals. the juice of onions they used as ointment for eyesores, albugo and argema with honey for serpent bites and all kinds of ulcers, with woman's milk for sore ear-laps, and dropped it into them with goose grease or honey for singing or hardness of hearing. diluted with water it was prescribed for those suddenly smitten with dumbness. in toothache it was poured by drops into the mouth to rinse the teeth; likewise on to wounds made by any wild beasts, especially to those of scorpions. in mange and itch crushed onions have been rubbed on the places affected. boiled onions were given to eat to those affected by dysentery or lumbago; onion-peelings burnt to ash were applied in vinegar to serpent bites, and onions themselves in vinegar for those of the multipede. apart from what has been said, there are remarkable differences of opinion among physicians. the latest opinion holds that they are injurious to the viscera and the digestion, causing, it is said, flatulence and thirst. the school of asclepiades holds that, used as food, onions promote a healthy complexion, and, if they are eaten daily on an empty stomach, preserve a good state of health, are useful to the stomach, loosen the bowels by putting the air in motion, disperse haemorroids when used as a suppository, and the juice, added to that of fennel, is very beneficial in cases of incipient dropsy; added to rue and honey it is used for quinsy, and for dispelling lethargus. varro is our authority that an onion steeped in salt and vinegar, and then dried, is not attacked by worms. 