the squill used in medicine is white (the dark squill is female), and the whiter it is the more beneficial. when the dried skin has been torn from it, what is left of the living a plant is cut up and hung on a cord at short distances. afterwards the dry pieces are plunged still hanging into a jar of very strong vinegar, so as not to touch any part of the vessel. then the jar, plastered with gypsum, is placed under tiles which receive the sun the whole day long. this is done forty-eight days before the solstice. after this number of days the vessel is removed and the squills taken out, the vinegar being poured into another vessel. this vinegar sharpens the vision, is beneficial for pains of the stomach and sides if taken for two days at a time. but so great is its strength that too copious a draught produces for a moment the appearance of death. even when chewed by themselves squills are good for the gums and teeth. taken in vinegar and honey they bring away tapeworm and other intestinal parasites. fresh squills placed under the tongue prevent dropsical patients from suffering thirst. they are cooked in several ways: either in a pot lined with fat or clay, to be put into an oven or furnace, or else they are cut up and cooked in a stewpan. raw squills too are dried, then cut up, boiled in vinegar and then applied to snake bites. another way is to roast the squills and then clean them, after which the centre parts are again cooked in water. thus prepared they are used for dropsy, as a diuretic, drunk with honey and vinegar in doses of three oboli, and also for diseases of the spleen and stomach, when food floats undigested, provided that no ulceration is felt, for griping pains, jaundice, and chronic cough with asthma. scrofula is cleared away by squill leaves, if they are left on for four days; dandruff and running sores by an application of squills cooked in oil. cooked too in honey squills are used as food, especially to promote digestion. so prepared they also purge the bowels. cooked in oil and mixed with resin squills heal cracks in the feet. the seed mixed with honey is applied to relieve lumbago. squills too, hung in a doorway, are said by pythagoras to have power to keep off evil enchantments. 