ocimum (basil) too was severely condemned by chrysippus as injurious to stomach, urine and eyesight, adding that it causes madness, lethargus and liver troubles, and that for this reason goats refuse to touch it, so that men also ought to avoid it. certain authorities add that pounded ocimum, if covered by a stone, breeds a scorpion, and that ocimum chewed and left in the sun breeds worms; the africans moreover hold that a man's life is lost if he is stung by a scorpion on the same day as he has eaten ocimum. moreover, some hold that if a handful of ocimum be pounded up with ten sea or river crabs, all the scorpions in the neighbourhood are drawn to it. diodorus in his empirica says that the use of ocimum as a food breeds lice. the period that followed saw strong defenders of ocimum who said that goats do eat it, that no man's mind has been affected by it, and that in wine and a little vinegar it cures the stings of land scorpions and the venom of those in the sea. experience also proves, they say, that ocimum if smelt in vinegar is good for fainting; also for lethargus, and to cool inflammations; for headache, too, if used as a liniment with rose oil or with myrtle oil or with vinegar, and for eye fluxes if applied in wine. it is said too, to be beneficial to the stomach, to disperse flatulence by belching if taken in vinegar, to check looseness of the bowels if applied externally, to be diuretic, applied thus to be good for both jaundice and dropsy, and to check even the diarrhoea of cholera. philistion therefore prescribed ocimum even for coeliac complaints and when boiled for dysentery; some against the advice of plistonicus prescribe it in wine for tenesmus, spitting of blood and hardness of the hypochondria. applied to the breasts it checks the flow of milk. it is very beneficial, especially with goose grease, for the ears of babies. the pounded seed snuffed up the nostrils promotes sneezing, and used as a liniment the flow of mucus from the head; taken as food in vinegar it purges the womb. mixed with cobbler's blacking it removes warts. being aphrodisiac it is also administered to horses and asses at the time of service. 