the other bulbs cure cuts on the face when used with vinegar and sulphur, contraction of the sinews too when pounded up and used by themselves, dandruff when mixed with wine, and the bites of dogs when mixed with honey; erasistratus would mix them with pitch. the same authority holds that applied with honey they stop a flow of blood. others add coriander and flour for bleeding at the nose. theodorus treats lichen also with bulbs in vinegar, adding a dry wine or egg for eruptions on the head. the same authority applies them for eye-fluxes, and their centres for dry ophthalmia. red bulbs in particular, applied in the sun with honey and soda, remove spots on the face, and freckles when applied with wine or with vinegar. they are wonderfully good too for wounds, either by themselves, or as damion advises, with honey wine, if the application be allowed to remain for four days at least. by the same means he treats broken ear-laps and hydrocele, adding flour also for pains in the joints. boiled in wine and applied to the belly they soften hardness abdomen. for dysentery they are given in diluted with rain-water, for internal spasms in the size of a bean compounded with silphium. sweating they are bruised and applied. they good for the sinews, and therefore are given to paralytics. red bulbs, mixed with honey and salt, heal sprains of the foot very quickly. megarian bulbs are a strong aphrodisiac; garden bulbs taken with concentrated must or raisin wine help delivery; wild bulbs compounded with silphium and swallowed in pills relieve intestinal wounds and affections. the seed of the last is taken in wine against the bite of venomous spiders. the bulbs themselves are applied in vinegar against the bites of serpents. the ancients used to give the seed in drink to persons raving mad. the flowers of bulbs pounded up remove spots on the legs and patches produced by fire. diocles thinks that the eyes are weakened by them. he adds that when boiled they are less useful than roasted, and that according to the strength of every variety they are difficult of digestion. 