parsley is universally popular, for sprigs of it are found swimming in draughts of milk everywhere in the country, and in sauces it enjoys a popularity all its own. moreover applied with honey to the eyes, provided that they are also frequently fomented with a warm decoction, it is wonderfully beneficial, as also for other fluxes on the limbs, when applied pounded up, either by itself or with bread or pearl-barley. fish also, if they are sickly in ponds, are revived by fresh parsley. but no other plant taken from the ground has caused such a variety of opinion among the learned. parsley shows distinction of sex. chrysippus says that female parsley has hard and curlier leaves, a thick stem and a sharp, hot taste, dionysius that it is darker, has a shorter root and breeds grubs; both agree that neither should be classed among the foods — nay, that it is altogether a sin to eat parsley, because it is dedicated to the funeral feasts in honour of the dead, and that it is also bad for the eyesight. they say that the stem of female parsley breeds grubs, and because of this those who have eaten it, whether male or female, become barren, and actually that sucking babies become epileptic if their nurses have eaten parsley. the male plant however they say is the less injurious. this is why it is not classed among plants utterly taboo. the application of parsley leaves softens hardness of the breasts. to boil parsley in it makes water sweeter to drink. the juice of the root in particular added to wine relieves lumbago, and hardness of hearing if the same liquid be dropped into the ears. the seed is diuretic, aids the menses and the afterbirth, and restores bruises to their natural colour if they are fomented with a decoction of the seed. applied with white of egg, or boiled in water and drunk, parsley cures kidney troubles, and ulcers in the mouth when pounded up in cold water. the seed with wine, or the root with old wine, breaks up stones in the bladder. the seed is also given, in white wine, to jaundice patients. 