the smell of mint by itself refreshes our spirits and its flavour gives a zest to food; for this reason it is a familiar ingredient in our sauces. by itself mint prevents milk from turning sour or curdled and thick; for which reason it is added to milk for drinking, and administered in water or in honey wine to such as are choked by a curdled draught. through the same property it is believed to be a hindrance to generation by not allowing the genital fluids to thicken. bleeding it checks in both men and women, and stays menstruation; violent disturbance of the bowels also, if taken in water with starch. ulceration and abscess of the womb are healed by an external application, liver complaints by doses of three oboli in honey wine, spitting of blood by the same in broth. it is wonderfully good for curing sores on children's heads; it dries a wet and braces a dry trachea, in honey wine and water it clears away purulent phlegm, and benefits the voice, if its juice be taken just before a strain is put upon it, not otherwise; a gargle also of the juice added to rue and coriander in milk is good for a swollen uvula. with alum it is good for the tonsils, with honey for a rough tongue, and by itself for internal spasms and for lung complaints. with pomegranate juice, as democritus tells us, it stops hiccough and vomitings. the juice of fresh mint, inhaled, is good for affections of the nostrils. pounded by itself mint is good for cholera, taken in a draught of vinegar, for internal fluxes of blood, made into a plaster with pearl barley, for iliac trouble also and tension of the breasts. it is also applied to the temples for headache, and it is taken for the wounds caused by the scolopendra, sea scorpion and serpent. it is applied to fluxes of the eyes, to all eruptions on the head, and to rectal troubles. it prevents too chafing, even if only held in the hand. added to honey wine it is poured into the ears. it is even said to cure splenic trouble if it be tasted in the garden, without plucking it, if he who bites it says on nine consecutive days that he is curing his spleen; also that a three-finger pinch of the dried powder taken in water relieves stomach ache, and that the same with a sprinkling of drink expels intestinal worms. 