pennyroyal and mint are strong allies in reviving people who have fainted, both being put, in whole sprays, into glass bottles full of vinegar. for this reason varro declared that a garland of pennyroyal was more suited to our bedrooms than one of roses, for an application is said to relieve headache; moreover, its very smell protects the head, so it is reported, against injury from cold or heat, and from thirst, nor do they suffer from the heat who carry when they are in the sun two sprays of pennyroyal behind their ears. it is also applied with pearl barley and vinegar for pains. the female plant is the more efficacious. this has a mauve flower, but the male a white one. taken in cold water with salt and pearl barley it checks nausea; in this form pains in the chest also, and in water by itself pains in the stomach. likewise it checks gnawings and vomiting if taken with vinegar and pearl barley; in salt, vinegar and pearl barley it loosens the bowels. boiled with honey and soda it cures complaints of the intestines; in wine it is diuretic, and if the wine be aminaean it disperses both stone and all internal pains. in honey and vinegar it relieves menstruation and the afterbirth, replaces displaced uterus and expels the dead foetus. its seed is given to smell in cases of aphasia; to epileptics it is administered with vinegar in doses of one cyathus. if unwholesome water has to be drunk, pounded pennyroyal is sprinkled on it. it relieves physical tiredness if taken in wine; it is rubbed with salt and vinegar on the sinews, and when these are contracted, and with honey for opisthotonic tetanus. a decoction is drunk for serpent bites; pounded it is taken in wine for stings of scorpions, especially if the pennyroyal be grown on dry soil. it is supposed to be good for ulcerations of the mouth, and for cough. the flower of the freshly gathered plant, when burnt, kills fleas by its smell. xenocrates includes in his prescriptions the administering of a sprig of pennyroyal wrapped in wool to be smelt by sufferers from tertian ague before an attack of fever, or its being placed under the bedclothes for the patient to lie on. 