but among our chief medicinal plants is rue. the cultivated kind has the wider leaves and the more bushy branches; the wild variety is harsh in its effects and sharper in all respects. the juice is extracted by pounding with a moderate sprinkling of water, and is kept in a copper box. an overdose of this juice possesses poisonous qualities, especially in macedonia near the river aliaemon. strangely enough, it is neutralized by the juice of hemlock; so there are actually poisons of poisons, and hemlock juice is good for the hands and face of those who gather rue. further, rue, especially the gallic variety, is one of the chief ingredients of antidotes. any sort of rue, however, is even by itself a powerful antidote, the pounded leaves being taken in wine, especially against aconite and mistletoe; likewise, whether given in drink or in food, against poisonous fungi. in like manner it counteracts the bites of serpents, seeing that weasels, when about to fight with them, first protect themselves by eating rue. rue is good for stings of scorpions and for those of spiders, bees, hornets and wasps, for injuries caused by cantharides and salamanders, and for the bites of mad dogs. the juice is drunk in wine in doses of one acetabulum, and the leaves pounded or chewed are applied with honey and salt, or after boiling with vinegar and pitch. it is said that any besmeared with its juice, and even those having it on their persons, are never stung by these poisonous creatures, and that serpents avoid the fumes that come from burning rue. its most efficient form is the wild root taken with wine. authorities add that this root is more efficacious if the draught be taken out of doors. pythagoras divided rue also into (a) male, with smaller leaves and of a grass-green colour, and (b) female, with more luxuriant leaves and more colour. he also thought it injurious to the eyes, wrongly, since engravers and painters use rue as food, with bread or cress, for the sake of their eyes; wild goats also, they say, cat it to improve their vision. many have dispelled dimness by anointing the eyes with its juice added to attic honey or to the milk of a woman who has just borne a male child, or even by touching the corners of the eyes with the pure juice. rue applied with pearl barley relieves fluxes from the eyes; taken in wine or applied with vinegar and rose oil, headaches likewise; if however the headache be chronic, barley flour and vinegar should be the other ingredients. the same plant soon relieves indigestion, flatulence and chronic pains of the stomach. it opens the womb, and corrects displacement of it, if applied in honey to the whole abdomen and chest; added to figs and boiled down to one half it is administered in wine in cases of dropsy. in this form it is also taken for pains in the chest, sides and loins, for coughs and asthma, for complaints of the lungs, liver and kidneys, and for cold shivers. to prevent the after-effects of drinking a decoction of the leaves is taken before indulgence in wine, it is beneficial as a food, raw, boiled or preserved, likewise for colic if boiled in hyssop and taken with wine. in this form it checks internal haemorrhage, and, if injected into them, bleeding nostrils; this form is also good for rinsing the teeth. the juice is also poured into the ears for earache, care being taken, as we have said, to inject only a moderate quantity if the wild variety is used; but for hardness of hearing and for singing in the ears there is added rose oil or bay oil, or else wine and honey. for phrenitis too the juice of pounded rue is poured in vinegar over the temples and cranium. some have also added wild thyme and bay, rubbing with this mixture the head and the neck. rue has been given in vinegar for sufferers from lethargus to smell, and a decoction of the juice for epileptics to drink in doses of four cyathi; it has been given before attacks of fever with unbearable chill, and also raw, as food, to sufferers from shivering fits. it is diuretic also, even when there is haematuria; it promotes too menstruation, and brings away the afterbirth and the foetus that has died before delivery, as hippocrates holds, if it be taken in sweet, dark wine, or so applied locally. he also prescribes fumigation with rue to stimulate the womb. diocles so applies it in vinegar and honey with barley meal for heartburn: for severe colic, the meal should be boiled in oil and spread over pieces of fleece. many moreover also think that two drachmae of dried rue and one and a half drachmae of sulphur can be taken for purilent spittings, and for spitting of blood three sprays boiled in wine. pounded and taken in wine with cheese it is also given to patients with dysentery. crumbed into a draught it has also been given with bitumen for shortness of breath; for heavy falls three ounces of seed with one pound of oil and a sextarius of wine. the leaves boiled with oil ate applied to parts that have been bitten by frost. if it is diuretic, as hippocrates holds, it is strange that some prescribe it as an antidiuretic drink for incontinence of urine. an application of rue, with honey and alum, heals itch and leprous sores; vitiligo also and warts, scrofula and similar complaints, with nightshade, lard and beef suet; in vinegar and oil, or white lead, erysipelas; in vinegar, carbuncles. some prescribe the addition of silphium to the ointment, without using it, however, for the treatment of night pustules. a decoction of it is applied to swollen breasts, and with the addition of wax for outbursts of phlegm; for fluxes of the testicles, however, tender sprigs of laurel are added, and so extraordinary is the effect of these on the abdomen that, it is said, by an ointment of the wild variety with old axle-grease hernia is healed, as are also broken limbs by an application of the pounded seed and wax. the root of rue applied to the part affected restores to normal blood-shot eyes, and scars or spots on any part of the body. of the other traditions about rue a remarkable one is that, although it is agreed that rue is by nature hot, yet a bunch of rue boiled in rose oil with one ounce of aloes checks the perspiration of those who have rubbed themselves with it, and that its use as food hinders the generative powers. accordingly it is prescribed for spermatorrhoea and for frequent amorous dreams. pregnant women must take care to exclude rue from their diet, for i find that the foetus is killed by it. of all plants rue is the one most generally used for the diseases of quadrupeds also, whether it be difficulty of breathing or the bites of noxious creatures; it is injected through the nostrils in wine, or in vinegar if a bloodsucker has been swallowed; in any type of illness it is compounded as in the corresponding illness in man. 