there is also a wild cummin, a very slender plant with four or five serrated leaves, but, like the cultivated variety, of great use, especially as a remedy for stomach trouble. pounded and taken with bread, or drunk in water and wine, it dispels phlegms and flatulence; pipings also and pains in the bowels. all cummin, however, produces paleness in those who drink the draughts. at least it is reported that the followers of porcius latro, a distinguished teacher of rhetoric, imitated by this means the pallor that had followed his close application to study; and not so long ago julius vindex, the famous supporter of freedom against nero, flattered in this way the hopes of legacy-hunters. applied in the form of lozenges or fresh in vinegar it arrests bleeding at the nose; applied by itself it is good for fluxes from the eyes, and applied with honey it is good for them when swollen. for babies it is sufficient for it to be placed upon the abdomen. for jaundice it is administered in white wine after bathing. ethiopian cummin is given chiefly in vinegar and water, and in an electuary with honey. the african variety is thought to have the special quality of checking incontinence of urine. cultivated cummin, parched, and beaten up in vinegar, is given for troubles of the liver, likewise for vertigo; pounded moreover it is given in sweet wine to those who smart from too acrid urine; for disorders of the womb, in wine, and besides with an application of the leaves wrapped up in wool; for swollen testes it is parched and pounded, and applied with honey or with rose oil and wax. for all these purposes wild cummin is more efficacious; moreover with oil it is so for bites of serpents, and for stings of scorpions and scolopendras. a three-finger pinch in wine checks vomiting and nausea. for colic also it is drunk, or applied hot in lint kept in its place by bandages. taken in wine it opens up suffocations of the womb, the dose being three drachma of cummin in three cyathi of wine. it is poured into the ears with veal suet or honey, when there are noises or ringing in them. for bruises it is applied with honey, raisins and vinegar, for black freckles in vinegar. 