the most esteemed variety is the cretan; next comes the egyptian. this in seasoning takes the place of lovage. to burn it and inhale the fumes through the nostrils relieves headache. evenor recommends its pounded root to be applied to fluxes of the eyes; iollas recommends a similar application of the plant itself with saffron and wine; by itself, with only pearl barley added, he prescribes it for violent fluxes and for extraction of anything which has got into the eyes. applied in water it also removes a cancerous growth in the nostril. used as a gargle with hyssop and honey in vinegar it relieves quinsies; it is poured with rose oil into the ears; phlegm in the chest is cleared away by parched anise taken with honey. for a cough it is better to pound up in honey fifty bitter almonds, peeled, with an acetabulum of anise. a remedy very easy indeed to make consists of three drachmae of anise and two of poppy mixed with honey and divided into pieces of the size of a bean, the dose being three daily. its chief value, however, is to cause belching, and so it cures flatulence of the stomach, griping of the intestines and coeliac trouble. boiled, and either smelt or drunk, it also stays hiccough. its boiled leaves are a remedy for indigestion. to smell the juice of the plant boiled with celery a stops sneezing. taken in drink it promotes sleep, disperses stone, stays vomiting and swelling of the hypochondria, besides being very useful for chest troubles and for the sinews with which the body is girt. it is good for headache also to pour in drops upon the head the juice of anise boiled with oil. nothing is considered to be more beneficial to the belly and intestines, and so it is given roasted for dysentery and for tenesmus. some add opium also, pills of the size of a lupine-seed being swallowed three times a day and washed down in a cyathus of wine. dieuches used the juice also for lumbago; the pounded seed with mint he gave for dropsy and coeliac trouble; evenor gave the root also for diseases of the kidneys. dalion the herbalist prescribed a poultice of anise and parsley for women in labour, and also for pain in the womb; he recommended it to be taken with dill in drink by women in labour. it is applied also in cases of phrenitis, sometimes freshly gathered and with pearl barley; it is also so applied to babies suffering from epilepsy or convulsions. pythagoras indeed declares that no epileptic fit occurs while anise is held in the hand, and for this reason advises that as much as possible be planted near the home. he also says that to smell it makes for easier childbirth, and that immediately after delivery it should be given in a draught with a sprinkling of pearl barley. sosimenes used it in vinegar for all indurations and for fatigue, boiling it in oil after adding soda. he guaranteed travellers less fatigue if they took anise seed in drink. for flatulence of the stomach heraclides gave in honey-wine a three-finger pinch of the seed with two oboli of beaver oil, and in like manner for flatulence in the belly or intestines and for orthopnoea a three-finger pinch of the seed, the same quantity of henbane, and asses' milk added. many advise that those intending to take an emetic should during the dinner take it in water by acetabula of anise and ten pounded bay leaves. it relieves suffocation of the womb, if it be chewed and applied warm, or if it be taken with beaver-oil in oxymel. a dose of a three-finger pinch of cucumber seed and of the same quantity of linseed, in three cyathi of white wine, dispels vertigo after childbirth. for quartan agues tlepolemus used a three-finger pinch of the seed of anise and fennel, taken in vinegar and one cyathus of honey. applied with bitter almonds it relieves diseases of the joints. there are some who believe that its nature neutralizes the poison of asps. diuretic, it quenches thirst, is an aphrodisiac, promotes with wine a gentle perspiration, and also protects clothes from moths. it is more efficacious always when fresh and the darker it is, yet it injures the stomach except when there is flatulence. 