of the cultivated poppy i have mentioned three kinds a and i promised to describe other kinds, those of the wild poppy. of the cultivated poppy the calyx itself of the white kind is pounded and is taken in wine to induce sleep. the seed cures elephantiasis. from the dark poppy a soporific is obtained by making incisions in the stalk, when the buds are forming (as diagoras advises), or when the flowers are falling (as iollas recommends), at the third hour of a clear day, that is to say, when the dew on the plant has dried up. they recommend that the incision be made beneath the head and calyx, and in no other variety either is an incision made into the head itself. both this juice and that of any other plant is gathered in wool, or if there be but little, by scratching it off, as it is from lettuce, with the thumb nail, doing the same on the following day to any that has since become drier. poppy juice however being copious thickens, and squeezed into lozenges is dried in the shade; it is not only a soporific, but if too large a dose be swallowed the sleep even ends in death. it is called opium. in this way, we are told, died at bavilum in spain the father of publius licinius caecina, a man of praetorian rank, when an unbearable illness had made life hateful to him, and so also several others. for this reason a great controversy has arisen. diagoras and erasistratus have utterly condemned it as a fatal drug, forbidding its use moreover in injections on the ground that it is injurious to the eyesight. andreas has added that the only reason why it does not cause instantaneous blindness is because it is adulterated at alexandria. afterwards, however, its use was not disapproved of in the form of the famous drug called î´î¹î¬ îºï‰î´ï…ïŽî½ (diacodion). the seed too pounded into lozenges with milk is used to induce sleep, also with rose oil for headache; with rose oil too it is poured into the ears for earache. as a liniment for gout it is applied with woman's milk (the leaves by themselves are also so used), likewise in vinegar for erysipelas and wounds. i myself, however, should disapprove of its addition to eye salves, and much more to what are called febrifuges, digestives and coeliacs; the dark poppy, however, is given in wine for coeliac trouble. all kinds of cultivated poppy are larger than the wild. the heads are round, while those of the wild are long and small, though for all purposes more effective. the poppy is boiled and the liquid drunk for sleeplessness, with the same water the face is fomented. the best poppies grow on dry soils, and where the rainfall is slight. when the heads themselves and the leaves are boiled down, the juice is called meconium, and is much weaker than opium. the chief test of opium is its smell, that of pure opium being unbearable; the next best test is to put it in a lamp, when it should burn with a bright, clear flame, and smell only when it has gone out; adulterated opium does not behave in this fashion. adulterated opium is also harder to light, and is continually going out. a further test of pure opium is by water, on which it floats as a light cloud, while the impure gathers into blisters. but especially wonderful is the fact that pure opium is detected by the summer sun. for pure opium sweats and melts until it becomes like freshly gathered juice. mnesides thinks that opium is best kept by adding. the seed of henbane, others by putting it in beans. 