another kind of wild gourd is called colocynthis. the fruit is smaller than the cultivated, and full of seed. the pale variety is more useful than the grass-green. taken by itself when dried it is a drastic purge. used also as an enema an injection is a remedy for all complaints of the bowels, of the kidneys, and of the loins, as well as for paralysis. after the seed has been picked out, hydromel is added and boiled down to one half, which gives a very safe strength for an injection of four oboli. the stomach is benefited also by taking pills made of the dry powder mixed with boiled honey. in jaundice seven seeds of it are taken, to be followed immediately by hydromel. the pulp added to wormwood and salt cures toothache, while its juice warmed with vinegar makes loose teeth firm. rubbed on with oil it likewise relieves pains of spine, loins and hips. moreover, wonderful to relate, an equal a number of its seeds, fastened to the body in a cloth, is said to reduce those fevers which the greeks call periodic. the warmed juice, also, of the shredded cultivated colocynthis cures earache, and its inner pulp without the seed corns on the feet, as well as the suppurations called by the greeks î¬ï€î¿ïƒï„î®î¼î±ï„î±. the juice obtained by boiling down the whole pulp along with the seeds makes loose teeth firm and stops toothache, and a boiled mixture of it with wine stops inflammation of the eyes. an application of the pounded leaves with fresh cypress leaves, or of the fruit alone, roasted in a clay pot, reduced to powder and added to goose grease, is a cure for wounds. moreover, when fresh, with shreds of its bark it cools gout and inflammations of the head, especially of babies, and erysipelas by the application to the part affected of the same shreds, or of the seeds. the juice from scrapings, mixed with rose-oil and vinegar, makes a liniment which cools the heat of fevers. the dust of the dried fruit applied to burns is wonderfully healing. chrysippus the physician disapproved of gourds as food, but there is a general agreement that they are very beneficial to the stomach, and also for ulceration of the intestines and bladder. 