most authorities have placed among the especially valuable plants horehound, called by some greeks prasion, by others linostrophon, by a few philopais or philochares, a plant too well known to need description. its leaves and seed pounded together are good for the bites of serpents, pains in the chest and side, and chronic cough; and those who have been troubled with spitting of blood derive extraordinary benefit from its stalks, boiled in water with italian millet to mellow the harshness of the juice. it is applied externally with grease for scrofula. there are some who prescribe for a cough a two-finger pinch of the fresh seed, boiled down with a handful of emmer to which a little oil and salt has been added, to be swallowed by the patients when fasting. others consider incomparable for the same purpose an extract of horehound and fennel; three sextarii are extracted and boiled down to two; a sextarius of honey is added and the whole is again boiled down to two. the dose should be a spoonful a day swallowed in a cyathus of water. pounded horehound with honey is remarkably good for maladies of the male genitals. it clears up lichen if applied in vinegar, and is healing for ruptures, spasms, cramp and the sinews. taken with salt and vinegar it relaxes the bowels, also helping menstruation and the afterbirth. dried and powdered it is very efficacious with honey for a dry cough, likewise for gangrene and hangnails. the juice moreover with honey is good for the ear-laps, nostrils, jaundice, and for lessening the secretion of bile; as an antidote for poisons it is among the few most effective. the plant itself with iris and honey purges the stomach, clears the lungs of phlegm, promotes urine, but should be avoided when there is an ulcerated bladder or the kidneys are affected. the juice is also said to improve the eyesight. castor records two kinds of horehound, the dark and the white, the latter being preferred by him. he puts horehound juice into an empty eggshell, and then pours in the egg itself and honey in equal proportions; this mixture warmed he assures us brings abscesses to a head, cleanses them and heals them. pounded also he applied horehound with old axle-grease to dog bites. 