there is also purslane, which is called peplis, being not much more beneficial than the cultivated variety, of which are recorded remarkable benefits: that the poison of arrows and of the serpents haemorrhoids and prester are counteracted if purslane be taken as food, and if it be applied to the wound, the poison is drawn out; likewise the poison of henbane if purslane be taken in raisin wine, after extraction of the juice. when the plant itself is not available, its seed has a similarly beneficial effect. it also counteracts the impurities of water, and if pounded and applied in wine it cures headache and sores on the head; other sores it heals if chewed and applied with honey. so prepared it is applied also to the cranium of infants, and to an umbilical hernia; for eye-fluxes in persons of all ages, with pearl bailey, to the forehead and temples, but to the eyes themselves in milk and honey; also, if the eyes should fall forwards pounded leaves are applied with bean husks, to blisters with pearl barley, salt and vinegar. sores in the mouth and gumboils are relieved by chewing it raw; toothache likewise and sore tonsils by the juice of the boiled plant, to which some have added a little myrrh. but to chew it makes firm loose teeth, strengthens the voice and keeps away thirst. pains at the back of the neck are relieved by it with equal parts of gall nut, linseed and honey, complaints of the breasts with honey or cimolian chalk, while asthma is alleviated by a draught of the seed with honey. taken in salad it strengthens the stomach. it is applied with pearl barley to reduce high temperature, and besides this when chewed it also cools the intestines. it arrests vomiting. for dysentery and abscesses it is eaten in vinegar or taken in drink with cummin, and for tenesmus it is boiled. whether eaten or drunk it is good for epilepsy, for menstruation if one acetabulum be taken in concentrated must, for hot gout and crysipelas if applied with salt. a draught of its juice helps the kidneys and the bladder, expelling also intestinal parasites. for the pain of wounds it is applied in oil with pearl barley. it softens indurations of the sinews. metrodorus, author of compendium of prescriptions from roots, was of opinion that it should be given after delivery to aid the afterbirth. it checks lust and amorous dreams. a spanish prince, father of a man of praetorian rank, because of unbearable disease of the uvula, to my knowledge carries except in the bath a root of purslane hung round his neck by a thread, being in this way relieved of all inconvenience. moreover, i have found in my authorities that the head rubbed with purslane ointment is free from catarrh the whole year. it is supposed however to weaken the eyesight. 