on the other hand, both kinds of mallow, the cultivated and the wild, are highly praised. the two lands of them are distinguished by the size of the leaf. among cultivated mallows the larger is called by the greeks malope; the other is called malache, the reason being, it is thought, because it relaxes the bowels. but of the wild kinds, the one with a large leaf and white roots, called althaea, has received from some the name of phstolochia, from the excellence of its properties. mallows make richer every soil in which they are sown. they are efficacious against every sort of stings, especially those of scorpions, wasps and similar creatures, and those of the shrewmouse. moreover, those who have been rubbed beforehand with oil and any one of the mallows pounded, or who carry it on their persons, are never stung. a leaf placed on a scorpion paralyses it. mallows also counteract the poison of white lead. raw mallow applied with saltpetre extracts splinters and thorns; taken moreover boiled with its root it counteracts the poison of the sea-hare, some adding that it must be brought back by vomiting. other marvels are reported of the mallows, the most wonderful being that whoever swallows daily half a cyathus of the juice of any one of them will be immune to all diseases. running sores on the head are cured by mallows that have rotted in urine, lichen and sores in the mouth by them and honey, dandruff and loose teeth by a decoction of the root. with the root of the single-stem plant they stab around an aching tooth until the pain ceases; the same plant a clears scrofula and parotid abscesses, and with the addition of human saliva superficial abscess also, and that without leaving a wound. the seed taken in dark wine clears away phlegm and nausea. the root attached as an amulet in dark wool stays troubles of the breasts; boiled in milk and taken like broth. it relieves a cough in five days. sextius niger says that mallows are injurious to the stomach; the theban lady olympias that with goose-grease they cause abortion, and others that a handful of their leaves taken in oil and wine assist the menstruation of women. it is agreed at any rate that women in labour are more quickly delivered if mallow leaves are spread under them, but they must be withdrawn immediately after delivery for fear of prolapsus of the womb. they give the juice to be drunk by women in labour; they must be fasting, and the dose is a hemina boiled down in wine. moreover, they attach the seed to the arm of sufferers from spermatorrhoea, and mallows are so aphrodisiac that xenocrates maintains that the seeds of the single-stem mallow, sprinkled for the treatment of women, stimulate their sexual desire to an infinite degree, and that three roots attached near to the part have a like effect. he says too that injections of mallow are very good for tenesmus and dysentery, and also for rectal troubles, or fomentations may be used. the juice is also given warm in doses of three cyathi to sufferers from melancholia, and in doses of four to those who are raving; for epilepsy the dose is a hemina of the decoded juice. this juice is also applied warm to patients with stone, and to sufferers from flatulence, griping and opisthotonia. for both erysipelas and burns the leaves are applied boiled down to an oily paste, and they are applied raw with bread for painful wounds. the juice of a decoction is good for sinews, bladder and gnawings of the intestines. the paste soothes the womb whether taken by the mouth or injected; the decoction makes the passage pleasant. for all purposes mentioned above the root of althaea is more efficacious, especially for spasms and ruptures. boiled in water it checks looseness of the bowels; taken in white wine it is good for scrofula, parotid abscesses and inflammation of the breasts, and an application of the leaves, boiled down in wine, removes superficial abscess. the same leaves dried and boiled down in milk cure very quickly the most racking cough. hippocrates gave the juice of the boiled-down root to be drunk by wounded men who were thirsty through loss of blood, and applied the plant itself with honey and resin to wounds; likewise to bruises, sprains, and swellings; as above also to muscles, sinews and joints. he gave it to be taken in wine by patients suffering from cramp or dysentery. it is remarkable that water to which this root has been added thickens in the open air and congeals. the fresher it is also, the better. 