mustard, of which we have three kinds among the cultivated plants, pythagoras judged to be chief of those whose pungent properties reach a high level, since no other penetrates further into the nostrils and brain. pounded it is applied with vinegar to the bites of serpents and scorpion stings. it counteracts the poisons of fungi. for phlegm it is kept in the mouth until it melts, or is used as a gargle with hydromel. for toothache it is chewed, for the uvula it is used as a gargle with vinegar and honey. it is very beneficial for all stomach troubles. taken with food it eases expectoration from the lungs, and is given to asthmatics, as well as for epileptic exhaustion a with the addition of juice of cucumber. lit clears the senses, and, by the sneezing caused by it, the head; it relaxes the bowels; it promotes menstruation and urine. pounded with figs and cummin, each being one third of the whole, it is applied externally for dropsy. by its powerful smell when mixed with vinegar mustard revives those in epileptic swoons and women fainting with prolapsus, as well as those afflicted with lethargus. tordylon - that is, the seed of hartwort - is added, and if the lethargy be unusually deep, it is applied with fig in vinegar to the legs or even to the head. long-standing pains of the chest, loins, hips, shoulders, and whatever deep-seated troubles in any part of the body have to be removed, are relieved by the caustic property of an external application, causing blisters; but when there is great hardness the application is made without the fig, or if too severe burning be feared, between a doubled cloth. they use it with red earth for mange, itch, leprous sores, phthiriasis, tetanus and opisthotonus. with honey they also use it as ointment for scabrous cheeks or dimness of vision, and the juice is extracted in three ways in an earthen pot, in which it is slightly warmed by the sun. there also exudes from the slender stem of the mustard plant a milky juice, which, when it has thus hardened, cures toothache. seed and root, steeped in must, are pounded together, and a handful is swallowed to strengthen the throat, stomach, eyes, head and all the senses, as well as the lassitude of women, being a very wholesome medicine indeed. taken in vinegar it also disperses stone. to livid places and bruises it is applied with honey and goose-grease, or else with cyprian wax. from mustard-seed, steeped in olive oil and then compressed, there is extracted an oil, which is used for stiffness of the sinews, loins and hips, and for violent chills. 