there is in this class of plant a wild variety called hippomarathum, by some myrsineum, with larger leaves and a sharper taste, taller, as thick as a walking-stick, and with a white root. it grows in warm and rocky soils. diocles has spoken of yet another kind of hippomarathum, with a long, narrow leaf, and a seed like that of coriander. the cultivated kind is used in medicine for the wounds of scorpions and serpents, the seed being taken in wine. the juice is also dropped into the ears, where it kills the worms infesting them. the plant itself is an ingredient of nearly all condiments, being especially suited for digestives. moreover, it is placed under the crusts of loaves. the seed braces a relaxed stomach, even if taken in fevers, relieves nausea if pounded and taken in water, and is a highly praised remedy for complaints of the lungs and liver. it stays looseness of the bowels, if a moderate amount be taken; when taken for griping it is diuretic, and a decoction drunk when milk fails fills the breasts again. the root cleanses the kidneys when taken with barley water, or if the juice of the boiled-down root be drunk with wine. taken in wine the root is also good for dropsy, likewise for spasms. the leaves are applied in vinegar to inflamed tumours, and they expel stones in the bladder. in whatever way it is taken it creates an abundance of seed, being very soothing to the privates, whether the root be boiled down with wine for a fomentation, or the plant be pounded up and applied in oil. many also apply it with wax to bruises, and use the root in the juice or with honey for dog bites, and in wine for the sting of the multipede. hippomarathum is for all purposes more drastic, expelling stone particularly well, and with a soft wine doing good to the bladder and to retarded menstruation. in this the seed is more efficacious than the root. the dose of either is a two-finger pinch, ground and added to drink. petrichus who wrote serpent-lore and miecion, author of prescriptions from roots, thought nothing more efficacious than hippomarathum for serpent bites. nicander indeed also has placed it far from last in his list of antidotes. 