trychnos, spelt by some strychnos, i wish the egyptian florists did not use for their chaplets; they are tempted to do so by the resemblance of the leaves of both kinds to those of ivy. one of these kinds, bearing in a seed-bag scarlet berries with a stone in them, is called halicacabos, by others callion, and by our countrymen bladder-wort, because of its usefulness in cases of stone and other complaints of the bladder. it is a woody shrub rather than a plant, with large, broad, conical seed-bags, with a large stone inside, which ripens in november. a third kind has the leaves of basil, and should receive the briefest of descriptions from one who is dealing with remedies, not poisons, for a very small amount of the juice causes madness. yet the greek writers have actually made a jest of this property. for they have said that a dose of one drachma plays tricks with the sense of shame, speaking of hallucinations and realistic visions; that a double dose causes downright insanity; any addition moreover to the dose bringing instant death. this is the poison which in their innocence very unsophisticated writers have called dorycnion because spears before battle had their points dipped in it, as it grows everywhere. those who censured it less severely gave it the name manicon; those who from evil motives tried to keep its nature secret called it erythron, or neuras, or (as a few did) perisson, but there is no need to go into more details even for the sake of giving a warning. there is besides another kind, with the name of halicacabos, which is soporific, and kills quicker even than opium, by some called morion and by others moly, yet praised by diocles and evenor, by timaristus indeed even in verse, with a strange forgetfulness of harmless remedies, actually because it is, they say, a quick remedy for strengthening loose teeth to rinse them in wine and halicacabos. they added a proviso, that the rinsing must not go on too long, for delirium is caused thereby. remedies should not be described the use of which involves the danger of a yet more serious evil. accordingly, although a third kind of this plant is in favour as a food, and although its flavour is preferred to that of other garden produce, and although xenocrates prescribes trychnos as being beneficial for every bodily ill, yet the genus is not so helpful that i consider it right on this account to give any more details, especially when the supply is so abundant of harmless remedies. the root of halicacabos is taken in drink by those who, to confirm superstitious notions, wish to play the inspired prophet, and to be publicly seen raving in unpretended madness. the remedy for it, which i am happier to mention, is a copious draught of hot hydromel. nor will i pass over this: that balicacabos is so antipathetic to the nature of asps that if its root be brought near it stupefies that very power of theirs to kill by stupefaction. therefore pounded and in oil it is a help to those who have been bitten. 