all spices and also the plants from which they come have different colours, perfumes and juices. it is rare for a thing that smells not to have a bitter taste; on the contrary sweet substances rarely have any smell; and so wines have more smell than must, and all wild plants than the cultivated. the smell of some plants is sweeter at a distance, becoming fainter as the distance is lessened; for instance, that of the violet. a freshly gathered rose smells at a distance, but a faded rose when nearer. all perfume however is stronger in spring, and in the morning; as the day draws near to noon it grows weaker. young plants also have less perfume than old ones; the strongest perfume however of all plants is given out in middle age. the rose and the saffron have a stronger perfume when they are gathered in fine weather, as have all flowers in warm climates than those in cold. in egypt however the flowers have very little perfume, the atmosphere being misty and full of dew owing to the wide expanse of river. the scent of some plants is sweet but oppressive. some, while green, have no smell because of too much moisture, the buceras, for example, which is the same as fenugreek. watery flowers have perfume not altogether independent of the essential juice, the violet for instance, the rose and the saffron; moreover, watery flowers without this juice always have an oppressive perfume, for example, both kinds of lily. southernwood and sweet marjoram have pungent scents. of some plants the flowers only are pleasant, the other parts being scentless, for example, those of the violet and of the rose. of garden plants the strongest-scented are those that are dry, like rue, mint and parsley, and such as grow on dry soils. some products have more scent when old, for example the quince, and these same have more when gathered than when growing in the ground. some have scent only when broken or after being crushed, others only when the skin or bark has been stripped off, others indeed only when burnt, for example, frankincense and myrrh. crushed flowers are all more bitter than when unbroken. a few, such as the melilot, keep their scent longer when dried. some impart a scent to the place itself, as does the iris, which also affects the whole of any tree, the roots of which it happens to touch. the hesperis has a stronger scent at night, from which fact it gets its name. no animal has a smell, unless we believe what has been said about the panther. 