wild saffron is better than any other. to grow it in italy is most unprofitable, as a whole bed of saffron yields only a scruple of the essence. it is propagated from a bulb of the root. the cultivated saffron is broader, larger and more handsome, but much less potent; it is degenerating everywhere, and is not prolific even at cyrene, where grows a saffron whose flowers have always been very famous. but the prime favourite is that of cilicia, and in particular of mount corycus, then that of mount olympus in lycia, and then that of centuripa in sicily. some have given second place to the saffron of thera. nothing is adulterated as much as saffron. a test of purity is whether under the pressure of the hand it crackles as though brittle; for moist saffron, as saffron is when adulterated, makes no noise. another test is whether it stings slightly the face and eyes if after the above test you bring the hand back to the face. there is a kind of cultivated saffron which is for its own sake very attractive to the general public, though it really is of moderate value, called dialeucon. that of cyrene, on the other hand, has the defect of being darker than any other kind, and loses its quality very rapidly. the best everywhere is that having a very rich nature, and a short pistil; the very worst has an odour of decay. mucianus is our authority for stating that in lycia after six or seven years it is transplanted to a well-dug bed; in this way it recovers from its degeneration. it is nowhere used for chaplets, the plant having a leaf that is but little broader than the fibre. but with wine, especially with sweet wine, powdered saffron makes a wonderful mixture to spray the theatre. the saffron plant flowers for only a few days at the setting of the pleiades and pushes off the flower with its leaves. it is green at the winter solstice, when it is gathered. it is dried in the shade; if in winter, so much the better. the root also is fleshy and longer-lived than that of any other plant. saffron likes to be trodden on and trampled under foot; destroying it makes it grow better. for this reason it is most luxuriant near footpaths and fountains. already at the time of the trojan war it was held in high esteem. homer, at any rate, praises three flowers — lotus, saffron and hyacinth? 