the rose is both astringent and cooling. there are separate uses for its petals, flowers and heads. the parts of the petals which are white are called nails. in the flower, seed and filament are distinct, as are shell and calyx in the head. the petals are dried, or the juice is extracted from them by one of three methods. they may be treated by themselves, when the nails, in which there is most moisture, are not removed; or when what is left after removing the nails is steeped with oil or wine in glass vessels in the sunshine. some add salt also, and a few alkanet or aspalathus or fragrant rush, because so prepared the essence is very beneficial for complaints of the uterus and for dysentery. with the nails removed the petals may also have their juice extracted by being pounded, and then strained through a thick linen cloth into a bronze vessel; the juice is then heated on a slow fire until it becomes as thick as honey. for this process only the most fragrant petals must be selected. how wine is made from roses i have described in my treatment of the various kinds of wine. rose juice is used for the ears, sores in the month, the gums, as a gargle for the tonsils, for the stomach, uterus, rectal trouble, headache - when due to fever either by itself or with vinegar - to induce sleep or to dispel nausea. the petals are burned to make an ingredient of cosmetics for the eyebrows, and dried rose leaves are sprinkled on (chafed) thighs. fluxes of the eyes also are soothed by the dried leaves. the flower induces sleep, checks menstrual, particularly white, discharges if taken in vinegar and water, as well as the spitting of blood; a cyathus of it in three cyathi of wine relieves stomach-ache. as to the seed, the finest is of a saffron colour, not more than a year old, and should be dried in the shade; the dark seed is harmful. it is used as a liniment for toothache, is diuretic, and may be applied to the stomach or in eases of erysipelas that is not of long standing. inhaled by the nostrils it clears the head. rose heads taken in drink cheek diarrhoea and haemorrhage. the nails of rose petals are healing for fluxes of the eyes, for eyesores discharge if the whole rose is applied, unless it is at the beginning of the flux, and then the rose must be dry and mixed with bread. the petals indeed taken internally are very good for gnawings of the stomach and for complaints of the belly or of the intestines, good also for the hypochondria, and they may be applied externally. they are also preserved for food, in the same way as sorrel. care must be taken with rose petals, as mould quickly settles on them. some use can be made of dried petals, or those from which the juice has been extracted. powders, for example, are made from them to cheek perspiration. these are sprinkled on the body after a bath and left to dry, being afterwards washed off with cold water. the little balls on the wild rose mixed with bears' grease are a remedy for mange. 