the red iris is better than the white one. it conduces to the health of babies to have this tied on them, especially when they are teething or suffering from cough, and to inject it into those troubled with tapeworms. its other properties are not much different from those of honey. it cleanses sores on the head, especially abscesses of long standing. taken in doses of two drachmae with honey it relaxes the bowels; taken in drink it relieves cough, griping and flatulence, in vinegar, complaints of the spleen. in vinegar and water it is an antidote against the bites of snakes and of spiders; against stings of scorpions two drachmae by weight are taken in bread or water; for dog-bites and abrasions it is applied in oil. so prepared it is also applied to aching sinews, but for lumbago and sciatica resin is added. its nature is warming. snuffed up through the nostrils it promotes sneezing and clears the head. for headache it is applied with quinces or with sparrow-apples. it dispels also the after-effects of wine and orthopnoea. taken in doses of two oboli it acts as an emetic. applied with honey it draws out splinters of broken bone. for whitlows its meal is used, wine being added for corns and warts, the plaster not being removed for three days. chewed it sweetens foul breath and offensive armpits. its juice softens all indurations. it induces sleep, but dries up the semen. it heals cracks in the anus and condylomata, and all excrescences on the body. some authorities call the wild variety xyris. this disperses scrofulous sores, superficial abscesses and swellings in the groin. it is recommended that for these purposes it should be pulled up with the left hand, and the gatherers should utter the name of the patient and of the complaint for whose sake they are pulling it. while speaking of this plant also i will make known the dishonesty of herbalists. they keep back a part of it and of certain other plants, such as the plantain. if they think their pay insufficient and look for further employment, they bury in the same place the part they kept back, i suppose to make the complaints they have cured break out again. the root of celtic valerian boiled down in wine checks vomiting and strengthens the stomach. 