up to the present i have spoken only of the anemone used for chaplets; i shall now describe the kinds used in medicine. there are some who use the name phrenion. there are two kinds of it: one is wild, and the other grows on cultivated ground, though both prefer a sandy soil. of the cultivated anemone there are several species; for it has either a scarlet flower - this is also the most plentiful - or a purple one, or one the colour of milk. the leaves of all these are like the leaves of parsley, and rarely does the plant exceed half a foot in height, the head resembling that of asparagus. the flower never opens except when the wind is blowing, a fact to which it owes its name. the wild anemone is the larger, and its leaves are broader, the flower being scarlet. many have been misled into identifying the wild anemone with the argemone, others again with the poppy that i have called rhoeas. but there is a great difference between them, because these two blossom after the anemone, which does not yield a juice like theirs, has not their calyx, and there is no likeness except the head like asparagus. anemones are good for headache and inflammations, for uterine complaints and for lacteal troubles. they also promote menstruation when taken with barley water or used on a wool pessary. the root chewed brings away phlegm, is healing to the teeth and when boiled down to fluxes of the i eyes and to scars. the magi have attributed to the anemones a kind of mystic potency, recommending that the plant which is first seen should be taken up in that year with the utterance that it is being gathered as a remedy for tertian and quartan agues; after this the blossoms must be wrapped up in a red rag and kept in the shade, and so be used, should occasion arise, as an amulet. if the crushed root of the anemone bearing a scarlet flower be applied to the skin of any living creature, it produces a sore by reason of its astringent qualities, and for this reason it is employed for cleansing ulcerous sores. 