i have spoken more than once of the marvel of heliotropium, which turns round with the sun even on a cloudy day, so great a love it has for that, luminary. at night it closes its blue flower as though it mourned. there are two varieties - tricoccum and helioscopium. the latter is the taller, although neither is more than half a foot in height, and sends out branches from a single root. its seed, enclosed in a pod, is gathered at harvest time. it grows nowhere but in a rich, well cultivated soil, but tricoccum grows everywhere. i find it said that, boiled, it is an agreeable sauce, that in milk it is a gentle laxative, and that a draught of the decoction is a most drastic purge. the juice of the taller plant is collected in summer at the sixth hour; it is mixed with wine, which makes it keep longer. mixed with rose oil it relieves headache. the juice from the leaf, with salt added, takes away warts; or which reason our countrymen have called it wart plant, although it is more worthy to have a name derived from its other properties. for taken in wine or hydromel it counteracts the poison of snakes and scorpions, according to the statements of apollophanes and apollodorus. an application of the leaves cures the infantile catarrhs that are called siriasis, and also convulsions, even though caused by epilepsy. it is very healthful, too, to wash out the mouth with a decoction. a draught of the same expels tape-worms and gravel; if cummin be added, it breaks up stone. a decoction should include the root, which with leaves and he-goat suet is applied to gouty limbs. the other kind, called by us tucoccum and having the further name of scorpiuron, has leaves which not only are smaller but also turn towards the ground. its seed is shaped like a scorpion's tail, which accounts for its name. an application is of great efficacy against the poison of all venomous animals and spiders, but especially against that of scorpions. those carrying it are never stung, and if with a sprig of heliotropium a circle be drawn on the ground round a scorpion, it is said that it never moves out, and moreover, that if the plant is put on a scorpion, or if a scorpion merely be sprinkled with the wet plant, it dies at once. four grains of the seed taken in drink are said to be good for quartan ague, three grains however for tertian, or the plant itself may be carried three times round the patient and then placed under his head. the seed is also aphrodisiac, mixed with honey it disperses superficial abscesses. this heliotropium at any rate draws warts out by the root, as well as growths in the seat. corrupt blood also about the spine or in the loins is withdrawn by an application of the seed, and by a draught or decoction of it in chicken broth, or with beet and lentils. the husk of the seed restores the natural colour to livid patches. the magi recommend that the patient himself should tie on himself heliotropium, four pieces if the ague be quartan and three if it be tertian, and to say in prayer that he will untie the knots only when the fever has left him, and to lie in bed without taking the plant off. 