maidenhair too is remarkable, but in other ways. it is green in summer without fading in winter; it rejects water; sprinkled or dipped it is just like a dry plant — so great is the antipathy manifested — whence too comes the name given by the greeks to what in other respects is a shrub for ornamental gardens. some call it lovely hair or thick hair, both names being derived from its properties. for it dyes the hair, for which purpose a decoction is made in wine with celery seed added and plenty of oil, in order to make it grow curly and thick; moreover it prevents hair from falling out. there are two kinds: one is whiter than the other, which is dark and shorter. the larger kind, thick hair, is called by some trichomanes. both have sprigs of a shiny black, with leaves like those of fern, of which the lower are rough and tawny, but all grow from opposite footstalks, close set and facing each other; there is no root. it is mostly found on shaded rocks, walls wet with spray, especially the grottoes of fountains, and on boulders streaming with water — strange places for a plant that is unaffected by water! it is remarkably good for expelling stones from the bladder, breaking them up, the dark kind does so at any rate. this, i am inclined to believe, is the reason why it is called saxifrage (stone-breaker) rather than because it grows on stones. it is taken in wine, the dose being what can be plucked with three fingers. diuretic, the maidenhairs counteract the venom of snakes and spiders; a decoction in wine checks looseness of the bowels; a chaplet made out of them relieves headache. an application of them is good for scolopendra stings, though it must be taken off repeatedly for fear of burns. the same treatment applies to fox-mange also. they disperse scrofulous sores, scurf on the face and running sores on the head. a decoction of them is beneficial for asthma, liver, spleen, violent biliousness and dropsy. with wormwood an application of them is used in strangury and to help the kidneys. they promote the afterbirth and menstruation. taken in vinegar or blackberry juice they check haemorrhage. sore places too on babies are treated by an ointment of maidenhair with rose oil, wine being applied first. the leaves steeped in the urine of a boy [or girl] not yet adolescent, if they be pounded with saltpetre and applied to the abdomen of women, prevent the formation of wrinkles. it is thought that partridges and cockerels become better fighters if maidenhair be added to their food, and it is very good for cattle. 