laser, which is distilled from silphium in the way i have said, being reckoned one of the most precious gifts of nature, is used as an ingredient in very many medical prescriptions; but by itself it warms after chills, and taken in drink it alleviates affections of the sinews. in wine it is given to women, and on soft wool is used as a pessary to promote menstruation. mixed with wax it extracts corns from the feet after they have been cut round with the knife. a piece the size of a chick-pea, diluted, is diuretic. andreas assures us that, though taken in copious doses, it causes no flatulence, and is a great aid to digestion for the aged and for women; also that it is more beneficial in winter than in summer, and even then more so to teetotalers. care, however, must be taken that there be no internal ulceration. taken in the food it is a great help in convalescence; for given at the right time it possesses all the qualities of a caustic medicine, being even more beneficial to those accustomed to it than to those unfamiliar with it. its employment externally provides sure proofs of its healing power. taken in drink it neutralizes the poisons of weapons and of serpents; it is applied in water around such wounds, only for the stings of scorpions is oil added. for sores not yet coming to a head it is applied with barley meal or dried fig, for carbuncles with rue, or with honey, or by itself, smeared over with some sticky substance to make it adhere, and, similarly prepared, for dog bites; a decoction in vinegar with the rind of the pomegranate for growths around the anus; for corns commonly known as mortified corns some soda must be mixed with the laser. mange should be first thoroughly treated with soda, and then the hair is restored by an application with wine, saffron or pepper, mouse dung, and vinegar. chilblains are treated by fomentations of it with wine and by applications of the decoction in oil. it is used in like manner for callosities, and for corns on the feet, which must first be pared down. it is of especial value against bad waters, unhealthy districts or unhealthy weather, and is used for cough, affections of the uvula, chronic biliousness, dropsy, and hoarseness; for immediately clearing the throat it restores the voice. diluted with vinegar and water and applied with a sponge it soothes gouty limbs. it is given in gruel to patients with pleurisy who are going to drink wine, and in pills the size of a chick pea, coated with wax, to sufferers from cramp and tetanus. for quinsy it is used as a gargle; for wheezing and chronic cough it is given with leek in vinegar, and with vinegar to those who have swallowed curdled milk. with wine it is given for tubercular affections of the hypochondria and for epilepsy, in hydromel for paralysis of the tongue. boiled down with honey it is used as liniment for sciatica and lumbago. i should not approve of the advice of the authorities, who say that an aching hollow tooth should be plugged with a stopping of laser and wax, because of the startling proof provided by the man who, as a result of this, threw himself down from a height. the truth is that it enrages bulls to have their muzzles rubbed with it, and mixed with wine it makes serpents burst, so very greedy are they for the wine. for this reason i should not advise the teeth to be cleaned with it, although it is recommended to do so with laser and attic honey. the uses of laser mixed with other ingredients it would be an endless task to record, and i am dealing with remedies each of one substance for in these their essential nature is manifest. in compounds, however, there is usually risk of misleading guessing, for nobody is sufficiently careful, in making mixtures, to observe the sympathies and antipathies of the essential natures of the ingredients. i shall go more into detail later. 