barley meal, both raw and boiled, disperses abscesses and inflamed gatherings; it softens them and brings them to a head. at other times a decoction of it is made in hydromel or with dried figs, but for pains in the liver, when pus needs to be matured, it should be decocted in wine; when there is difficulty in deciding whether maturing or dispersal is necessary, then it is better for the decoction to be in vinegar, in lees of vinegar, or in boiled down quinces or pears. it is used with honey for multipede stings, in vinegar for snake bites and to stop suppuration, but for bringing away suppurating matter with diluted vinegar to which gallic resin has been added. for maturing of abscesses, however, and for chronic sores it must be used with resin, for indurations with pigeons' dung or dried fig or ashes, for inflammations of the sinews or of the intestines or pains in the sides with poppies or melilot, and also when the flesh falls away from the bones, for scrofulous swellings with pitch and the urine of a boy below the age of puberty added to oil. with fenugreek it is prescribed for swellings of the hypochondria, and for fevers with honey or stale fat. for suppurations wheat flour is much more soothing. to sinews it is applied with juice of henbane, for freckles, in vinegar and honey. meal of emmer-wheat, out of which as i have said alica is made, seems to be more efficacious even than barley meal, the three-month variety being the more soothing. it is used warm, in red wine, for the stings of scorpions, spitting of blood, and for tracheal affections. for a cough, goat-suet or butter is added. fenugreek meal, the most soothing of all, boiled with wine and soda, cures running sores and scurf on the body, stomach ache, and affections of the feet and of the breasts. darnel meal clears up chronic ulcers and gangrenes more than do the other kinds; for lichens radishes, salt and vinegar must be added, for leprous sores native sulphur, and for headache it should be applied with goose-grease to the forehead. boiled in wine, with pigeons' dung and linseed, it matures scrofulous swellings and superficial abscesses. 