there are also wild lupins, with weaker properties than the cultivated in every respect except their bitterness. of all the things that are eaten, none is less heavy or more useful than lupins when dried. they mellow when cooked in hot ash or in hot water. taken frequently as food they freshen the human complexion; bitter lupins are an antidote for the wound of the asp. dried lupins, peeled and pounded, make new flesh on black ulcers if applied in a linen cloth. boiled in vinegar they disperse scrofulous swellings and parotid abscesses. a decoction with rue and pepper is given to persons under thirty, even when feverish, to drive out intestinal worms, while in the case of children they are also applied to the bowels, the patient fasting; another method is to roast them, and to give them either in boiled must as a draught or else in honey. lupins increase the appetite, and remove squeamishness. their meal kneaded with vinegar and applied in the bath removes pimples and pruritus, and by itself dries up ulcers. it heals bruises, and, with pearl barley, soothes inflammations. wild lupins are more efficacious than cultivated for weakness of the hips and loins. a decoction of the same removes freckles and improves the complexion of those who use it as a fomentation. if however they are boiled down to the consistency of honey, they cure even black eruptions and leprous sores. an application of cultivated lupins also causes carbuncles to break; boiled in vinegar they reduce or mature superficial abscesses and scrofulous swellings, and restore to scars the original white of the skin; if however they are thoroughly boiled in rain water, the decoction makes a detergent with which it is good to foment gangrenes, eruptions of rheum, and running ulcers; and it is also good to drink it for splenic affections and, with the addition of honey, for retarded menstruation. pounded raw with dried fig they are applied in vinegar to the spleen. the root too boiled in water is diuretic. lupins boiled with the herb chamaeleon cure sick cattle, the water being strained off into their drink. the itch on all quadrupeds is cured by lupins boiled in lees of olive oil, or by a mixture of the lees with a decoction of lupins. the smoke of burnt lupins kills gnats. 