there were therefore no special plants used in making this crown, but whatever plants had been found on the site of the peril, however lowly and mean, these gave the honour its nobility. that such ignorance about the composition of this crown is rife amongst us i consider less strange when i see the further indifference to the means of preserving health, of banishing physical pain and of warding off death. but who could not with justice censure modern ways? the cost of living has been increased by luxuries and extravagance; never has there been more zest for life or less care taken of it. we believe that care of our life is the duty of others, that others make it their business on instructions from us, and that physicians have already provided for our needs. the enjoyment of pleasures is our personal affair, but our lives we entrust to the charge of somebody else, thereby incurring what i personally hold to be the worst possible disgrace. moreover, most people actually laugh at me for carrying on research in these matters, and i am accused of busying myself with trifles. it is, however, a great comfort to me in my vast toil to know that nature too, not i alone, incurs this contempt, for i shall show that she at least has not failed us, having put remedies even into plants that we dislike, seeing that she has given healing properties even to those armed with prickles and thorns. for these remain to be discussed next after those plants i mentioned in the preceding book, as even in them we cannot sufficiently apprehend and admire the forethought of nature. she had given already the soft plants i spoke of that make pleasant foods; she had coloured the remedies in flowers, and by the mere sight had attracted our attention, combining the helpful with what is actually delightful. then she devised some so repellent to look at, so cruel to the touch, that we seem almost to hear the voice of nature justifying herself as she fashions them, and saying that she so creates them lest any greedy animal browse on her own self, any wanton hands steal, any careless steps crush, or any perching bird break; by defending them with these thorns, by arming them with weapons, she is making a protection and safety for her remedies. this very thing then that we hate in them has been devised for the sake of mankind. 