there is a white vine, which the greeks call variously ampelos leuce, staphyle, melothron, psilotrum, archezostis, cedrosis, and madon. its twigs are jointed and climbing, with long, thin interstices between the knots. the leaves, thick and bushy, are of the size of ivy leaves, and with jagged edges like those of vine leaves. the root is white, large, and like a radish at first. from it grow out stalks like asparagus. these, boiled and taken in food, are laxative and diuretic. the leaves and the stalks free the flesh from sores, and in particular are applied with salt to phagedaenic ulcers, to gangrenes, and to 'bad legs' the fruiting bunch hangs down in thinly scattered grapes, having a red juice, which turns later on to a saffron yellow. this fruit is well known to the curriers, who use it in the preparation of leather. it is applied to itch scab and leprous sores; if it is boiled with wheat, the decoction when drunk produces an abundance of milk in nurses. the root, famous for many uses, is pounded and taken in doses of two drachmae for snake bite. it removes spots and blotches on the face, freckles, bruises and scars; a decoction in oil is equally efficacious. it is given also in drink for epilepsy, as well as for nervous disorders and giddiness, the daily dose being a drachma by weight for a whole year. in larger doses, however, even the root itself sometimes disorders the senses. its most remarkable property is that applied in water, as bryony is, it extracts splintered bones, for which reason some call it white bryony, the one they call black bryony being distinct. the addition of honey and frankincense makes it more effective for the same use. incipient suppurations it disperses; those of long standing it matures and drains. it is an emmenagogue and diuretic. out of it an electuary is made for asthma and pains in the sides, and for spasms and ruptures. doses of three oboli taken in drink for thirty days eat up the spleen. in the form of an ointment it is also used with figs as a cure for hangnails. a pessary with wine brings away the afterbirth, and phlegm is brought away by a drachma dose taken in hydromel of the juice of the root — it ought to be dug up before the seed ripens — and this juice used as an ointment either by itself or with vetches shows off the body with what i may call a brighter complexion as well as with a softer skin. it keeps snakes away. the root itself pounded with a plump fig removes wrinkles from the body, but a walk of a quarter of a mile should be taken immediately after the application; otherwise it will cause a burn unless immediately washed away in cold water. the dark vine produces this same effect more pleasantly, for the white vine causes itching. 