the other considerations will be combined in a general description. by wine are improved men's strength, blood and complexion. wine it is that distinguishes the middle or temperate zone from the two that lie on either side of it. all the strength produced by the cruel extremes we of the temperate clime derive from the juice of the grape. bone is nourished by drinking milk, sinews by the beers, and flesh by water. accordingly, the drinkers of such have a less ruddy complexion, less strength, and less power to endure toil. wine in moderation strengthens the sinews; excess is injurious to them, as it is also to the eyes. wine is a tonic to the stomach and a sharpener of the appetite; it dulls sorrow and anxiety, expels urine and chills, and induces sleep. in addition it checks vomiting, and pieces of wool, soaked in wine and applied externally, soften abscesses. asclepiades asserted that the usefulness of wine is hardly exceeded by the power of the gods. old wine is diluted with a larger proportion of water, and while being for this reason a more powerful diuretic quenches thirst less effectively. sweet wine is less inebriating but floats in the stomach; but a dry wine is more easily digested. the lightest wine is that which matures most quickly. that wine is less injurious to the sinews that sweetens as it ages. less beneficial to the stomach is the wine that is rich and dark; it is, however, more flesh-forming. a thin, dry wine is less flesh-forming, but is more nourishing to the stomach, and passes more rapidly by means of urine, going, however, all the more to the head; this remark may be taken once and for all to apply to every other intoxicating liquor. wine matured by age and not by smoke is the most wholesome. wine-dealers first discovered the device, adopted today also by householders as well, of adding age in the storeroom to wines before they have acquired cariosity naturally. by using the word cariosity the men of old gave sound enough advice, since smoke eats out cariosity even in timber, but we moderns on the contrary are convinced that the bitterness of smoke produces in wines the character of age. wines that are of a very pale colour become unwholesome as they grow older. the more generous a wine is the thicker it becomes with age, contracting a bitter taste, which is very injurious to health, and to spice a less mature wine with it is also unwholesome. each wine has its peculiar flavour, the presence of which is a sign of great purity each wine has an age — its middle age — when it is most pleasant. 