even when sour, wine still has uses as a remedy. vinegar has very great cooling qualities, being equally efficacious, however, as a resolvent; earth in fact effervesces when vinegar is poured on it. i have often said, and shall often have to say, how often it is a beneficial ingredient with other things. drunk by itself it removes nausea and checks hiccough, and to smell it stops sneezing. kept in the mouth it moderates excessive heat in the bath. further, drunk with water it is a useful digestive to many when they are convalescing, and a gargle of vinegar and water is a good thing after sunstroke, the eyes too being greatly benefited by fomentation with the same mixture. it is a remedy after swallowing a leech, as well as for leprous sores, scurf, running sores, dog bites, the wounds of scorpions, of the scolopendra and of the shrewmouse; it is also an antidote for the poison and irritation caused by all stinging animals and for the bite of the multipede. applied warm on a sponge, with either two ounces of sulphur or a bunch of hyssop added to three sextarii of vinegar, it is also a remedy for troubles of the anus. for haemorrhage after excision of stone, or any other, it is applied externally on a sponge, and doses of two cyathi of the strongest vinegar are taken internally. it certainly disperses clotted blood. in the treatment of lichens it is used both internally and externally. injected it checks looseness of the bowels and catarrh of the intestines, and it is similarly employed for prolapse of the anus and of the uterus. it arrests chronic cough, catarrh of the throat, orthopnoea, and looseness of the teeth. it is injurious to the bladder and to weak sinews. its great efficacy as an antidote for asp bite was unknown to physicians, but recently a man who was bitten by an asp on which he trod while carrying a skin of vinegar felt the wound every time he put the skin down, but at other times it was as though he had never been bitten. he inferred that vinegar was an antidote and was relieved by taking a draught of it. and it is similarly with vinegar that those rinse out their mouth who suck poison from wounds. its all-embracing potency is not confined to foods, but includes also very many things; poured on rocks it splits them when attempts to do so with fire have failed. no other sauce serves so well to season food or to heighten a flavour; when used for which purpose its effect is lessened by burnt bread or cummin, or heightened by pepper and laserwort, and without fail is kept in check by salt. on this point i must not pass over a striking illustration of the power of vinegar. in the last years of his life m. agrippa was afflicted with grievous gout, and could not endure the pain. guided by the wonderful skill of one of his physicians, and without informing the late augustus - so strong the urge to be rid of that pain even at the price of losing all power to use his feet and all sensation in them - he plunged his legs into hot vinegar when a paroxysm of the disease was at its worst. 