now i shall discuss wines in relation to sickness. the most wholesome for gentry are the thinnest wines the common sort however may drink what each most fancies, provided that he is in robust health. wines are most beneficial when all their potency has been overcome by the strainer. we must remember that wine is grape juice that has acquired strength by fermentation. a mixture of several sorts of wine is injurious to anybody. the most wholesome wine is that to which nothing has been added in the state of must, and it is better if not even the wine-vessels have been touched by pitch. as for wines treated with marble, gypsum or lime, who would not dread to touch them, however robust his health? wine therefore prepared with seawater is particularly injurious to the stomach, to the sinews and to the bladder. wines seasoned with resin are supposed to be beneficial to cold stomachs but unsuited to those inclined to vomit, just as boiled-down must, and raisin wine, so seasoned, are also unsuitable. new wine seasoned with resin is good for nobody, causing headache and fits of giddiness. for this reason it has been named crapula. the wines already mentioned are good for coughs and catarrhs, as also for coeliac troubles and dysentery, and for the menstruation of women. in this class the red or dark wine is more astringent and more heating. less harmful is wine seasoned with pitch and with nothing else, but we ought to remember that pitch is nothing but the liquid from burnt resin. this kind of wine heats, digests, cleanses, is beneficial to chest and bowels, and also for pain in the uterus if there be no fever, for chronic catarrh, ulceration, rupture, spasms, abscesses, weak sinews, flatulence, cough, asthma, and for sprains if it be applied on unwashed wool. for all these purposes that wine is more beneficial which has naturally the flavour of pitch and is called pitchy wine in the helvian district, although taken in excess it flies, as is generally agreed, to the head. as far as fevers are concerned, wine should undoubtedly not be given when fever is present unless the patient be old, and then only when the disease has passed the crisis; in acute diseases only when the patients experience undoubted remissions, and these by preference at night - there is only half the danger for those who drink at night, that is, to induce sleep - nor should it be taken after delivery or a miscarriage, nor by those ill through sexual excess, nor with headache, nor when exacerbations are attended with chill in the extremities, nor in feverish coughs, tremulousness, pains in the sinews or throat, or if the violence of the disease is felt in the region of the groin; nor is it suitable when there is induration of the hypochondria, violent throbbing of the veins, nor in opisthotonus or tetanus, nor in hiccoughs, nor if there be difficulty of breathing accompanied by fever; least of all if the eyes be rigid and staring, or weak and heavy, nor should it be given when the eyes of those who have closed them are full of light, or when the lids do not cover them, or when the same thing happens in sleep, or if the eyes be bloodshot or rheum should form in the corners; certainly not if the tongue be furred a and heavy, and speech is blurred from time to time; nor in dysuria, nor in sudden frights, nor to those who are in convulsions, or again comatose, nor if the seed be emitted in sleep. 