headache and inflammations on the body are relieved by vine leaves and vine shoots combined with pearl barley, heartburn by the leaves alone in cold water, diseases of the joints, moreover, by the leaves mixed with barley meal. vine shoots pounded and applied to any kind of tumour dry it up; an injection of their juice cures dysentery. the drops of the vine, which are a kind of gum, heal leprous sores, lichen, and itch, but these must first be treated with soda. they also act as a depilatory if the hair be repeatedly smeared with them and oil, and particularly those drops that exude from green vines when burnt, by which even warts are removed. an infusion of the shoots taken as a draught is good for the spitting of blood and for the fainting of women after conception. the bark and dried leaves of vines check the bleeding of wounds, and close up the wound itself. the juice of the white vine, extracted while the vine is still green, removes eruptions on the skin. the ash of the twigs of vines and of grape skins, applied in vinegar, heals condylomata and complaints of the anus; with rose oil, rue and vinegar added, it heals sprains, burns, and swollen spleen. this ash too, in wine but without oil, is sprinkled on parts affected by erysipelas or chafed, besides acting as a depilatory. the ash of the twigs sprinkled with vinegar is also given in drink as a cure for splenic complaints, the dose being two cyathi in lukewarm water, and the patient after taking the draught should lie down on his spleen. the very tendrils by which the vine climbs, pounded and swallowed in water, check habitual vomiting. the ash of vines with old axle grease is good for tumours, cleanses fistulas and in time heals them completely, as it does cramps, and pains in the sinews arising from chill; for bruises however it may be applied thus or with oil, for excrescences of flesh on bones it should be with vinegar and soda, for scorpion stings and dog bites, with oil. the ash of the bark by itself restores the hair on burns. 