the milky juice of the fig has the nature of vinegar, and so like rennet it curdles milk. it is extracted before the fruit is ripe and dried in the shade for clearing up sores and promoting menstruation, the application being a pessary made with yoke of egg, or a draught with starch. with fenugreek meal and vinegar it makes a liniment for gout. it also serves as a depilatory, heals eruptions on the eyelids, as well as lichen and itch. it loosens the bowels. fig juice has the property of counteracting the poison of hornets, wasps and similar creatures, especially scorpions. with axle-grease it also removes warts. the leaves and unripe figs make a liniment for scrofulous sores and for all sores requiring the use of emollients or resolvents; the leaves by themselves too have the same property. they are used as well for rubbing lichen, mange, and on all occasions where a caustic is called for. the young shoots of the branches are applied to the skin to render dog-bites harmless. the same shoots with honey are applied to the sores called honeycomb. with leaves of wild poppy they extract fragments of bone. their leaves beaten up with vinegar render harmless the bites of mad dogs. the tender white shoots of the dark fig are applied to boils, and with wax to the bites of the shrewmouse, and the ash from their leaves to gangrenes and to reduce excrescences. ripe figs are diuretic, laxative, sudorific, and bring out pimples; for this reason they are unwholesome in autumn, since a body perspiring because figs have been eaten becomes very chilled. they upset the stomach, although. only for a while, and they are understood to be bad for the voice. the last figs are more wholesome than the first; doctored a figs, however, are never wholesome. figs increase the strength of youth; to age they give improved health and fewer wrinkles. they relieve thirst and cool the heat of the body; for this reason they are not to be rejected in the constrictive fevers called stegnae. dried figs are injurious to the stomach, but wonderfully beneficial to the throat and pharynx. the nature of these is heating, and they cause thirst. they relax the bowels, but are injurious to bowel catarrhs and to the stomach. on all occasions they are beneficial for the bladder, for difficult breathing and for asthma. likewise for complaints of the liver, kidneys and spleen. they are flesh-forming and strengthening, and therefore the earlier athletes used them as a staple food. it was the trainer pythagoras who was the first to change their diet of figs for one of meat. a convalescent after a long illness finds them very beneficial, as do sufferers from epilepsy and dropsy. they are applied to all gatherings that need bringing to a head or dispersing, more effectively if combined with lime, soda or iris. boiled with hyssop they clear the chest of phlegm and chronic cough; boiled with wine they clear away trouble at the anus and swellings of the jaws. a decoction of them makes an ointment for boils, superficial abscesses and parotid swellings. this decoction makes a useful fomentation for female complaints, and the same decoction, combined with fenugreek, is useful in pleurisy and pneumonia. boiled with rue figs are good for colic; with red copper oxide for sores on the shins and for parotid swellings; with pomegranate for hangnails; with wax for burns and chilblains; for dropsy they are boiled in wine with wormwood and barley meal. if they are chewed with soda added they relax the bowels; beaten up with salt they make a liniment for scorpion stings. boiled in wine and applied they bring carbuncles to a head. in cases of carcinoma, if there be no ulceration, it is almost specific to apply the richest fig possible, and the same is true of corroding ulcers. the ash from no other wood is more active as a cleanser, healer of wounds, former of new flesh, and as an astringent. it is also taken in drink to disperse blood that has coagulated, and likewise for bruises, violent falls, ruptures, and cramps, the dose being a cyathus to a cyathus of oil and water respectively. it is given to sufferers from tetanus and convulsions: in drink also or in an injection for coeliac trouble and for dysentery. with oil it makes an ointment which has warming properties. kneaded into a paste with wax and rose oil it forms over burns the slightest of scars. made into a paste with oil it cures short sight., and ailments of the teeth if used frequently as a dentifrice. it is said that, if anyone with upturned face draws a fig tree down, and a knot of it be bitten off without anybody seeing, to tie this round the neck by a string with a bag of fine leather and wear it as an amulet disperses scrofulous sores and parotid swellings. the crushed bark with oil heals ulcerations of the belly. raw green figs with soda and meal added remove warts and warty excrescences? the ash of the bushy shoots from the root is a substitute for zinc oxide. after two washings, with white lead added it is worked into lozenges for the treatment of ulcers and scabs on the eyes. 