the wild fig is even much more efficacious than the fig; a sprig of it also curdles milk into cheeses. it has less milk in it than the cultivated fig. this milk is collected and hardened by pressure, when it is rubbed on meat to keep it sweet. diluted with vinegar it forms an ingredient of blistering preparations. it relaxes the bowels; with starch it opens the uterus; with the yolk of egg it promotes menstruation. with fenugreek meal it is applied to gouty limbs. it clears up leprous sores, itch, lichen and freckles, and similarly cures wounds made by venomous creatures and dog bites. applied on wool this juice is also good for toothache, or hollow teeth may be plugged. the tender stalks and leaves mixed with vetches are a remedy for the poison of marine animals; wine also is added. beef can be boiled soft with a great saving of fuel if the stalks be added to the water. an application of the unripe figs soften and disperse scrofulous sores and every kind of gathering; to a certain degree the leaves too do the same. the softest leaves with vinegar heal running sores, epinyctis and scurfy eruptions. with honey the leaves cure honeycomb sores and fresh dog bites, with wine corroding sores, and with poppy leaves they extract splinters of bone. wild figs when green disperse flatulence by fumigation — taken in drink they are an antidote to bulls' blood that has been swallowed, to white lead and to curdled milk — and boiled down in water they disperse when used as a liniment sores of the parotid glands. the young stalks or green fruit of the wild fig, plucked when as small as possible, are taken in wine to counteract scorpion stings. the milk, too, is poured into a wound and the leaves are applied to it, and the same treatment is employed for the bite of the shrewmouse. the ash of the young shoots soothes a sore uvula; the ash of the tree itself applied in honey cures chaps, and the root boiled down in wine cures toothache. the winter wild fig, boiled in vinegar and beaten up, clears up eczema. the branches with the bark removed are scraped to produce particles as fine as sawdust, which are used as an application. the wild fig too one miraculous medicinal property attributed to it; if a boy not yet adolescent break off a branch and tears off with his teeth its bark swollen with sap, the mere pith tied on as an amulet before sunrise keeps away, it is said, scrofulous sores. the wild fig, if a branch be put round the neck of a bull, however fierce, by its miraculous nature so subdues the animal as to make him incapable of movement. 