there are besides marvels related of the mulberry. when it begins to bud, but before the leaves unfold, the fruit-to-be is plucked with the left hand. the greeks call them ricini. these, if they have not touched the ground, when worn as an amulet stay a flow of blood, whether it flows from a wound, the mouth, the nostrils, or from haemorrhoids. for this purpose they are stored away and kept. the same effect is said to be produced if there be broken off at a full moon a branch beginning to bear; it must not touch the ground, and is specially useful when tied on the upper arm of a woman to prevent excessive menstruation. it. is thought that the same result is obtained if the woman herself breaks off a branch at any time, provided that it does not touch the ground before it is used as an amulet. mulberry leaves pounded, or a decoction of dried leaves, are used as an application for snake bite, and it is of some benefit to take them in drink. the juice extracted from the skin of the root, and drunk in wine or diluted vinegar, counteracts the poison of scorpions. there must also be given a recipe of the ancients. the juice of the ripe fruit was mixed with that of the unripe, and the two boiled in a copper vessel to the consistency of honey. some used to add myrrh and cypress and then to bake the mixture very hard in the sun, stirring it three times a day with a spatula. this was their stomatice, which they also used to help the formation of a scar on wounds. another method was to squeeze the juice from dried fruit; this greatly improved the flavour of viands, and was moreover used in medicine for corroding sores, phlegm on the chest, and whenever astringent treatment of the bowels was called for. it was also used to rinse the teeth. a third kind of juice is to make a decoction of the leaves and root, to be applied in oil to burns. the leaves are also applied by themselves. an incision into the root at the time of harvest yields a juice admirably suited to relieve toothache, gatherings and suppurations, besides acting as a purge. mulberry leaves soaked in urine remove hair from hides. 