the white cultivated myrtle is less useful in medicine than the dark. its berries cure haemoptysis, and are taken in wine to counteract poisonous tree-fungi. even when chewed the day previously they make the mouth smell sweet, and so in menander the women in synaristosae [a comedy by menander] eat them. a denarius of the same by weight is given in wine for dysentery. made lukewarm they heal with wine obstinate sores on the extremities of the body. with pearl barley they are applied to the eyes for ophthalmia and to the left breast for cardiac disease. in neat wine they are applied to wounds inflicted by scorpions, and for affections of the bladder, headache, lacrimal fistulas before suppuration, and tumours; for pituitous eruptions the kernels are first taken out and then the berries are crushed in old wine. the juice of the berries settles the bowels and is diuretic. for eruptions of pimples and for those of phlegm an ointment is made of the juice and wax salve, and this is also used for the wounds of venomous spiders. the juice also darkens the hair. the oil from the same myrtle is milder than the juice, and so also is myrtle wine, which never intoxicates. when fully matured the wine settles the bowels and the stomach, cures colic and dispels squeamishness. the dried leaves, powdered and dusted over the body, check perspiration even in fever; it is useful also for coeliac trouble, prolapse of the uterus, affections of the anus, running sores, as a fomentation for erysipelas, for loss of hair, scaly eruptions, other eruptions also, and bums. the powder forms an ingredient in the plasters called liparae (emollient), for the same reason as the oil also is which is made from the leaves, for it is a very efficient application to the moist parts of the body, the mouth for instance and the uterus. the pounded leaves themselves are taken in wine as an antidote to the poison of tree-fungi, and moreover mixed with wax are used for diseases of the joints and for gatherings. a decoction of them in wine is prescribed to be taken by sufferers from dysentery and dropsy. they are dried to a powder which is dusted on sores and haemorrhages. they clear away freckles also, hangnails, whitlows, sores on the eyelid, condylomata, affections of the testicles, offensive sores, and also, with wax salve, burns. for pus in the ears they use both the burnt leaves and the juice as well as the decoction. the leaves are also burnt to afford material for antidotes; stalks too, plucked when in flower, are burnt in a furnace in a newly-made clay pot with the lid on and then pounded in wine. the ashes too of the leaves cure bums. if from a sore there be a swelling in the groin, it is a sufficient remedy merely to carry on the person a sprig of myrtle that has touched neither iron nor the ground. 