the bay-leaves, bark and berries — is of a heating nature; and so a decoction made from these, especially from the leaves, as is generally agreed, is good for the uterus and bladder. an application of the leaves, moreover, counteracts the poison of wasps, hornets and bees, as well as that of snakes, in particular of the seps, the dipsas band the viper. boiled with oil the leaves are also good for menstruation; tender leaves pounded and mixed with pearl barley are good for inflammations of the eyes, with rue for those of the testicles, and with rose oil or iris oil for headache. moreover three leaves, chewed and swallowed for three days in succession, free from cough; the same pounded and with honey free from asthma. the skin of the root is to be avoided by women with child. the root itself breaks up stone in the bladder, and three oboli taken in a draught of fragrant wine are good for the liver. the leaves taken in drink act as an emetic. the berries pounded and applied in a pessary or taken in drink act as an emmenagogue. doses of two berries with the skin removed taken in wine cure chronic cough and difficulty of breathing. if fever also be present, the berries are given in water, or in a raisin-wine electuary, or boiled down in hydromet. prepared in the same way they are good for phthisis and for all fluxes of the chest, for they both produce coctions of the phlegm and bring it up. for scorpion stings doses of four berries are taken in wine. applied in oil the berries clear up epinyctis, freckles, running sores, sores in the mouth, and scaly eruptions; the juice of the berries clear scurf from the skin and phthiriasis; for pain or dullness of the ears it is injected with old wine and rose oil. those anointed with it are shunned by all venomous animals; taken in drink also it is beneficial for wounds inflicted by them, especially the juice from the bay with very small leaves. the berries with wine are a prophylactic a against serpents, scorpions and spiders; with oil and vinegar they are applied also to the spleen and liver, with honey to gangrene. further, when there is severe fatigue or chill, anointing with the juice of this berry, to which soda has been added, is beneficial. some think that delivery is much hastened by taking in water an acetabulum by measure of bay root, fresh root being more efficacious than dried. several authorities prescribe that ten berries be given in drink for scorpion stings; to cure relaxed uvula that a quarter of a pound of berries or leaves be boiled down to one-third in three sextarii of water, the decoction to be used as a warm gargle; and that to take away headache an uneven number of berries be pounded with oil and warmed. the pounded leaves of the delphic bay, if smelt occasionally, keep off infection of plague, and the effect is greater if they are also burnt. oil from the delphic bay is useful for making wax salves and anodynes, for shaking off chills, for relaxing the sinews, and for the treatment of pain in the side and of the shivers of fever; warmed in the rind of a pomegranate it is also used for earache. the leaves boiled down in water to one-third, and used as a gargle, brace the uvula; taken by the mouth the decoction relieves pains in the bowels and intestines; the most tender leaves, pounded and applied in wine at night, remove pimples and itching. the other varieties of bay have very nearly the same properties. that of alexandria, or mt. ida, taken in doses of three denarii of the root to three cyathi of sweet wine, hastens delivery; it also brings away the afterbirth and acts as an emmenagogue. taken in drink in the same way, the wild bay, called daphnoides, or by the names already given to it, is beneficial; three drachmae of the leaves, fresh or dried, taken with salt in hydromel, relax the bowels. chewed, this bay brings up phlegm and the leaves bring up vomit, being injurious to the stomach. in this way, too, the berries, fifteen at a time, are taken as a purge. 