nor even the woods and the wilder face of nature are without medicines, for there is no place where that holy mother of all things did not distribute remedies for the healing of mankind, so that even the very desert was made a drug store, at every point occurring wonderful examples of that well-known antipathy and sympathy. the oak and the olive are parted by such inveterate hatred that, if the one be planted in the hole from which the other has been dug out, they die, the oak indeed also dying if planted near the walnut. deadly too is the hatred between the cabbage and the vine; the very vegetable that keeps the vine at a distance itself withers away when planted opposite cyclamen or wild marjoram. moreover, trees, it is said, that are now old and being felled are more difficult to cut down, and decay more quickly, if man's hand touch them before the axe. there is a belief that beasts of burden know at once when their load consists of fruit, and unless it is first shown to them straightway begin to sweat, however small their load may be. fennel-giant makes very agreeable fodder for the ass; to other beasts of burden, however, it is a quick poison. for this reason the animal is sacred to father liber, as is also fennel-giant. lifeless things also, even the most insignificant, have each their own special poisons. by means of linden bark and fine flour cooks extract excessive salt from food; salt reduces the sickliness of over-sweet things; water that is nitrous or bitter is sweetened by the addition of pearl barley, so that within two hours it is drinkable, and for this reason pearl barley is put into linen wine-strainers. the chalk of rhodes and the potter's earth of our own country possess a similar property. affinities show their power when pitch is taken out by oil, both being of a greasy nature. oil alone mixes with lime, both hating water. gum is more easily removed by vinegar, ink by water, and countless other examples besides will be carefully given in their proper place. 