held in no less honour is fenugreek, which is also called telis, carphos, bucerasp and aegoceras because its seed is shaped like small horns; the roman name for it is silicia. the method of sowing it we have described in its proper place. its properties are to dry, to soften and to dissolve. the juice of the decoction is of help in several ailments of women: whether it is hardness, swelling or contraction of the uterus, the treatment is fomentation and the sitz bath. injections are also of value. it checks scaly eruptions on the face. splenic troubles are cured by a local application of a decoction to which soda has been added; the decoction may also be made with vinegar. such a decoction is also good for the liver. in cases of difficult childbirth diocles prescribed an acetabulum of its crushed seed in nine cyathi of concentrated must; three-quarters were to be drunk, then the patients were to bathe in hot water, next, as they were sweating in the bath, he gave further half of what remained, and then the rest after the bath. in this way the maximum benefit was obtained. a decoction in hydromel of fenugreek meal with barley or linseed was used by the same physician to make a pessary for violent pains in the uterus; he combined this treatment with a plaster at the base of the abdomen. he treated leprous sores and freckles with equal parts of sulphur and fenugreek meal, the skin having been prepared beforehand with soda, applying the mixture several times a day and not allowing the patient to be rubbed with it. theodorus treated leprous sores with fenugreek and one-fourth part of cleaned cress steeped in the strongest vinegar. timon prescribed as an emmenagogue a draught of half an acetabulum of fenugreek seed with nine cyathi of concentrated must and water, and there is no doubt that a decoction of it is very good for ulcerated uterus and intestines, as the seed is for the joints and hypochondria. if, however, it is boiled down with mallows, and honey wine be afterwards added, a draught is praised as a pre-eminent remedy for troubles of the uterus and intestines, seeing that the steam also from the decoction is of the highest value; a decoction of fenugreek, too, removes offensive smells of the armpits. the meal with wine and soda quickly removes scurf and dandruff on the head. a decoction too of the meal in hydromel, mixed with axle-grease, cures complaints of the genitals, likewise superficial abscesses, parotid tumours, gouty affections of feet or hands, affections of the joints and the receding of flesh from the bones; but the meal is kneaded in vinegar for dislocations. a decoction of the meal in vinegar and honey only is used as a liniment for splenic trouble. kneaded in wine it cleanses cancerous sores; if honey is afterwards added a complete cure is effected. a gruel also of this meal is taken for ulceration of the chest and for chronic cough. it is boiled down for a long time until the bitterness disappears; afterwards honey is added. i shall now proceed to the peculiar glory of plants. 