that resin is derived from the trees mentioned above, with its various kinds and native regions, i have stated in my account of wine, and afterwards when dealing with trees. the most general classes are two — the dry resin and the liquid. dry resin comes from the pine and the pitch-pine, the liquid from the terebinth, larch, lentisk and cypress. for in asia and syria these last also produce it. they are mistaken who think that the same resin comes from the pitch-pine as comes from the larch. for the pitch-pine exudes a resin that is rich, and like frankincense in consistency, while the larch produces a thin resin with the colour of honey and a very offensive odour. medical men use liquid resin only occasionally, generally that from the larch and administered in egg, for coughs and ulcerated bowels, nor is that from the pine much used; the others are only employed after boiling. the various ways of boiling i have fully explained. of the various trees producing resin, the favourite is the terebinth, which yields one highly scented and very light; of the regions, cyprus and syria are most favoured; both resins are of the colour of attic honey, but the cyprian is thicker, with more body in it. in the dry kind the qualifies looked for are whiteness, purity and transparency; in every kind, however, that from a mountain soil is preferred to that from the plains, and a north-east aspect produces more highly esteemed resin than any other. resin is dissolved in oil for the treatment of wounds and for poultices; by means of bitter almonds when used for draughts. its medical properties are to close wounds, to act as a detergent, and to disperse gatherings; terebinth resin is also good for chest complaints. the last when warmed is used as an ointment for pains in the limbs; it is removed after a walk has been taken a in the sun. slave-dealers especially are anxious to use this ointment for rubbing over the whole bodies of their slaves, with the object of correcting thinness; by walks afterwards they loosen the skin of every limb, and they have the further object of making possible the assimilation of a greater quantity of food. next in popularity after terebinth resin comes that from the lentisk, which has an astringent quality and is more diuretic than the others. the rest of the resins loosen the bowels, cure indigestion, relieve chronic coughs, and also, when used as a fumigation, remove obstructions in the uterus. these are specific for the poison of mistletoe, and with beef suet and honey they heal superficial abscesses and similar affections. lentisk resin is a most excellent remedy for turning outwards ingrowing eyelashes, and is also very useful for fractures and for pus in the ears, and also for irritation of the genitals. pine resin is a very good remedy for wounds in the head. 