the agnus castus is not very different from the willow, either for its use in wickerwork or in the appearance of its leaves, but it has a more pleasant smell. the greeks call it lygos, sometimes agnos, because the athenian matrons, preserving their chastity at the thesmophoria, strew their beds with its leaves. there are two kinds of it. the larger grows up to be a tree like the willow; the smaller is branchy, with paler, downy leaves. the first bears pale blossom with some purple in it, and is called the white agnus; the other, which bears only purple blossom, is called the dark agnus. they grow on marshy plains. the seed taken in drink has a taste somewhat like wine; it is said to reduce fevers, to stimulate perspiration when applied as embrocation with oil, and also to dispel lassitude. the trees furnish medicines that promote urine and menstruation. they go to the head like wine - for the smell too is similar - drive flatulence into the lower bowels, check diarrhoea, and greatly benefit dropsy and splenic diseases. they encourage abundant rich milk, and neutralize the poisons of serpents, especially those that bring on chill. the smaller kind makes the more effective remedies for the bite of serpents; one drachma of the seed, or two of the most tender leaves, is taken in wine, or in vinegar and water. either kind makes a liniment for the bites of spiders; mere smearing drives away poisonous creatures, as does fumigation also, or placing some of the plant under the bed. they check violent sexual desire, and for this reason in particular they act as antidotes to the venomous spider, the bite of which excites the genitals. the blossom and tender shoots mixed with rose oil clear away headache due to intoxication. the seed takes away by fomentation with a decoction the more severe type of headache, purges the uterus also by fumigation or a pessary, and the bowels if drunk with pennyroyal and honey. boils and superficial abscesses that refuse to come to a head are softened by an application of it with barley meal. with saltpetre and vinegar the seed cures lichens and freckles, with honey sores of the month and of eruptions, those of the testes with butter and vine leaves, chaps in the seat when applied with water, dislocations when applied with salt, soda and wax. with the seed the leaves too are added to plasters for the relief of painful sinews and of gout. a decoction of the seed in oil is poured in drops on the head of sufferers from lethargus or phrenitis. it is said that those who keep a twig in their hand or in their girdle do not suffer from chafing between the thighs. 