i have pointed out twenty kinds of ivy. the medicinal properties of all are twofold in action. ivy deranges the mind and also clears the head when taken too copiously in drink; taken internally it injures sinews, while an external application does them good. all kinds of ivy, being of the same character as vinegar, are of a cooling nature. they are diuretic when taken in drink; they relieve headache; especially beneficial to the brain and to the membrane enclosing it is an application of soft leaves pounded and boiled with vinegar and rose oil, more rose oil being added afterwards. they are also applied to the forehead, and a decoction of them is used to foment the mouth and to rub the head. they are good for the spleen whether taken in drink or used as liniment. they are also boiled or beaten up in wine for the shivers of ague and for outbursts of phlegm. clusters also of ivy berries cure splenic trouble, either taken in drink or applied locally; for liver trouble, however, they must be applied. pessaries of berries promote menstruation. ivy juice, especially that of the white cultivated ivy, cures complaints and offensive smell of the nostrils. the same poured into the nostrils clears the head, more thoroughly if soda is added. it is also poured with oil into purulent or painful ears. it furthermore removes the ugly marks of scars. for troubles of the spleen the juice of the white kind warmed with hot iron is more efficacious. a sufficient dose is six berries taken in two cyathi of wine. berries of white ivy taken three at a time in oxymel expel tapeworms, and in this treatment it is also beneficial to apply the berries to the belly. the ivy that i have called golden-berried a draws off in the urine the subcutaneous water of dropsy, if twenty of the golden berries are beaten up in a sextarius of wine and the mixture is drunk in doses of three cyathi. erasistratus prescribed five berries of the same ivy, pounded in rose oil and warmed in the rind of a pomegranate, for toothache, the injection to be made drop by drop into the ear opposite to the pain. if the berries that have a saffron juice are taken in drink beforehand, they keep off the headache that follows drinking; they are likewise good for the spitting of blood and for colic. the whiter clusters of the dark ivy taken in drink make even men sterile. a decoction in wine of any kind of ivy is applied locally to every kind of ulcer, even if it is malignant. the tears of the ivy act as a depilatory and remove phthiriasis. the blossom of any sort of ivy, taken in dry wine twice a day, a three-finger pinch at a time, corrects dysentery and looseness of the bowels. with wax it is useful as an ointment for bums. the clusters turn the hair black. the juice of the root, taken in vinegar, is good for the bite of poisonous spiders. i find also that patients with diseases of the spleen are cured if they drink from a vessel made of this wood. they crush too the berries, then burn them, and in this way apply them to burns that have previously been bathed with warm water. there are also some who make incisions in ivy for the sake of the juice, which they use for decayed teeth; they say that the teeth break off, those nearest being protected by wax lest they should be injured. they obtain also a gum from ivy, which in vinegar is recommended as very useful for the teeth. 