not even brambles did nature create for harmful purposes only, and so she has given them their blackberries, that are food even for men. they have a drying and astringent property, being very good for gums, tonsils and genitals. they counteract the venom of the most vicious serpents, such as the haemorrhois and prester; the bloom or the berry counteracts that of scorpions. they close wounds without any danger of gatherings. their stalks are diuretic, being pounded when young and the juice extracted, which is then condensed in the sun to the thickness of honey, and is considered to be, whether taken by the month or used as ointment, a specific for affections of the mouth or eyes, for spitting of blood, quinsy, troubles of the uterus or anus, and for coeliae affections. for affections of the mouth, indeed, even the chewed leaves are efficacious, and they are used as ointment for running sores, or for any kind of sore on the head. even prepared thus without other ingredient they are applied near a the left breast for heart-burn, also to the stomach for stomach-ache, and to the eyes for procidence. the juice of them is also dropped into the ears. added to rose wax-salve it heals condylomata. a decoction in wine of its tender shoots is a quick remedy for affections of the uvula. the same shoots, eaten by themselves like cabbage sprouts, or a decoction of them in a dry wine, strengthen loose teeth. they check looseness of the bowels and discharges of blood, and are good for dysentery. they are dried in the shade and then burnt so that the ash may reduce a relaxed uvula. the leaves also dried and crushed are said to be useful for sores on draught animals. the blackberries which grow on them can furnish a better mouth-medicine than even the cultivated mulberry. made up on the same prescription or with hypocisthis and honey only, they are taken in drink for cholera, for heart-burn, and for the stings of spiders. among the medicines that are called styptics, there is none more effective than the root of a bramble bearing blackberries boiled down in wine to one third, so that sores in the mouth and the anus may be rinsed with the decoction and fomented; so powerful is it that the very sponges used become hard as stone. 