the greeks themselves moreover have put a wide difference between the two plants. they describe the seed of dracunculus as hot, with so foul a stench that the smell causes pregnant women to miscarry; aron they have lauded to the skies as an excellent food, preferring however the female plant, on the ground that the male is harder, and slower to cook, adding that it clears the chest of disorders, and that dried and sprinkled in drink or made into an electuary it is diuretic and an emmenagogue, as it is also when drunk in oxymel. they prescribed it to be drunk in sheep's milk for ulcerated stomach and bowels; cooked on hot ash and taken in oil they gave it for a cough. others boiled it in milk for the decoction to be drunk. thoroughly boiled it was applied by them to fluxes from the eyes, and likewise to bruises and to affected tonsils. glaucias injected it in oil for troublesome piles, using it with honey as an ointment for freckles. he recommended it also as an antidote against poisons, and, prepared as for coughs, for pleurisy and pneumonia. the seed pounded up with olive oil or rose oil is injected for earache. dieuches administered it, thoroughly mixed with the powder from a loaf, for coughs, asthma, orthopnoea, and the spitting of pus. diodotus gave it in the form of an honey electuary for consumption and complaints of the lungs, and even used it as an application for broken bones. applied round the sexual parts it helps delivery of all animals. dimness of vision and disorders of the stomach are removed by the juice of the root with attic honey, and cough by the broth of a decoction with the addition of honey. the juice is a wonderful remedy for ulcers of all kinds, whether corroding, cancerous, spreading, or polypus in the nostrils. the leaves, boiled in wine and oil, are good for bums. taken in salt and vinegar they are a strong purge, boiled with honey they are good for dislocations, and also fresh or dried, with salt added, for gouty joints. hippocrates applied them, fresh or dried, with honey locally to boils. as an emmenagogue two drachmae of the seed or root in two cyathi of wine are sufficient, and the same draught, if cleansing after delivery is not effected, also brings away the afterbirth. hippocrates also used the root by itself as a pessary. it is said too that in times of plague it is healthful to take it in one's food. it dissipates the effects of drunkenness. the fumes arising from it when it bums keep away serpents, especially asps, or make them so tipsy that they are found in a state of torpor. serpents are also kept off if the body is thoroughly rubbed with aron in oil of bay. for this reason it is also considered beneficial for snakebites if one takes aron in a draught of dark wine. it is said that cheese keeps very well if wrapped in leaves of aron. 