linozostis or parthenion was discovered by mercury, and so many among the greeks call it 'hermes' grass', but all we romans agree in calling it mercurialis. there are two kinds of it, the male and the female, the latter having the more powerful properties. it has a stem which is a cubit high and sometimes branchy at the top, leaves narrower than those of ocimum, joints close together and many hollow axils. the seed of the female hangs down in great quantity at the joints; while that of the male stands up near the joints, less plentiful, short and twisted; the female seed is loose and white? the leaves of the male plant are darker, those of the female lighter; the root is quite useless and very slender. it grows in flat, cultivated country. a remarkable thing is recorded of both kinds: that the male plant causes the generation of males and the female plant the generation of females. this is effected if immediately after conceiving the woman drinks the juice in raisin wine, or eats the leaves decocted in oil and salt, or raw in vinegar. some again decoct it in a new earthen vessel with heliotropium and two or three ears of corn until the contents become thick. they recommend the decoction to be given to women in food, with the plant itself on the second day of menstruation for three successive days; on the fourth day after a bath intercourse is to take place. hippocrates has bestowed very high praise on these plants for the diseases of women; no medical man recognises its virtues after this fashion. he used them as pessaries for uterine troubles, adding thereto honey, or oil of roses or of iris or of lilies, also as an emmenagogue and to bring away the afterbirth. the same effects, he said, resulted from taking them in drink and from using them for fomentations. he dropped the juice into foul-smelling ears, and with the juice and old wine made an embrocation for the abdomen. the leaves he applied to fluxes from the eyes. a decoction of it with myrrh and frankincense he prescribed for strangury and bladder troubles. for loosening the bowels, however, or for fever, a handful of the plant should be boiled down to one half in two sextarii of water. this is drunk with the addition of salt and honey, and if the decoction has been made with a pig's foot or a chicken added, the draught is all the more beneficial. some have thought that as a purge both kinds should be administered, either by themselves or with mallows added to the decoction. they purge the abdomen and bring away bile, but they are injurious to the stomach. their other uses we shall give in the appropriate places. 