the chief kinds are two, the white and the black. this difference, most authorities say, applies only to the roots, others say that the leaves of black hellebore are like those of the plane but smaller, darker and with more indentations; that the leaves of white hellebore are like those of sprouting beet, but also darker and turning to red on the under side of its grooves, and that both have a stem a span high, resembling that of fennel-giant, wrapped up in skins like those of bulbs, and with a root fringed like that of onions. the black hellebore kills horses, oxen and pigs; so they avoid it, although they eat the white kind. the latter is said to be ripe at harvest, and it grows abundantly on mount oita, and the best on one part of it, around the place called pyra. the black kind is to be found everywhere, but the better sort grows on helicon, a mountain celebrated also for other plants. next after the white hellebore of oita that of pontus is most approved; the third place is taken by that of elea, which is said to grow among vines, and the fourth by hellebore of parnassus, which is adulterated by hellebore from the neighbouring country of aitolia. of these the black kind they call melampodium; with it they fumigate and cleanse houses, sprinkling it on sheep, and adding a formal prayer. this kind is gathered with even greater formalities. first a circle is drawn round it with a sword; then the man who is going to cut it looks at the east with a prayer that the gods will grant him permission to do so. he also keeps on the lookout for a flying eagle — for generally one is present when men cut — and if an eagle flies near, it is a sign that the gatherer will die in that year. the white too is not easy to gather: it is very oppressive to the head unless garlic is eaten beforehand, wine swallowed every now and then and the plant dug up quickly. some call the black kind ectomon, others polyrrhizon. this purges by stool, but the white kind does so by vomiting, and carries away what might cause diseases; once regarded with horror it afterwards became so popular that most scholars took it regularly to sharpen their brains for their studies. it is well known that carneades, when preparing to reply to the works of zeno, purged himself with hellebore, and that drusus among us, most illustrious of our tribunes of the people, who was cheered by all the commons standing before him but charged by the aristocrats with causing the marsic war, was on the island of anticyra cured of epilepsy by means of this medicine. for there it is very safe to take the drug because they add to it sesamoides, as i have already said. in italy it is called veratrum. 