some physicians used to employ the mandrake also; afterwards it was discarded as a medicine for the eyes. what is certain is that the pounded root, with rose oil and wine, cures fluxes and pain in the eyes. but the juice is used as an ingredient in many eye remedies. some give the name eircaeon to the mandrake. there are two kinds of it: the white, which is also considered male, and the black, considered female. the leaves are narrower than those of lettuce, the stems hairy, and the roots, two or three in number, reddish, white inside, fleshy and tender, and almost a cubit in length. they bear fruit of the size of filberts, and in these are seeds like the pips of pears. when the seed is white the plant is called by some arsen, by others morion, and by others hippophlomos. the leaves of this mandrake are whitish, broader than those of the other, and like those of cultivated lapathum. the diggers avoid facing the wind, first trace round the plant three circles with a sword, and then do their digging while facing the west. the juice can also be obtained from the fruit, from the stem, after cutting off the top, and from the root, which is opened by pricks or boiled down to a decoction. even the shoot of its root can be used, and the root is also cut into round slices and kept in wine. the juice is not found everywhere, but where it can be found it is looked a for about vintage time. it has a strong smell, but stronger when the juice comes from the root or fruit of the white mandrake. the ripe fruit is dried in the shade. the fruit juice is thickened in the sun, and so is that of the root, which is crushed or boiled down to one third in dark wine. the leaves are kept in brine, more effectively those of the white kind. the juice of leaves that have been touched by dew are deadly. even when kept in brine they retain harmful properties. the mere smell brings heaviness of the head and - although in certain countries the fruit is eaten - those who in ignorance smell too much are struck dumb, while too copious a draught even brings death. when the mandrake is used as a sleeping draught the quantity administered should be proportioned to the strength of the patient, a moderate dose being one cyathus. it is also taken in drink for snake bite, and before surgical operations and punctures to produce anaesthesia. for this purpose some find it enough to put themselves to sleep by the smell. a dose of two oboli of mandrake is also taken in honey wine instead of hellebore - but hellebore is more efficacious - as an emetic and to purge away black bile. 