hemlock too is poisonous, a plant with a bad name because the athenians made it their instrument of capital punishment, but its uses for many purposes must not be passed by. it has a poisonous seed, but the stem is eaten by many both as a salad and when cooked in a saucepan. this stem is smooth, and jointed like a reed, of a dark colour, often more than two cubits high, and branchy at the top; the leaves resemble those of coriander, but are more tender, and of a strong smell; the seed is coarser than that of anise, the root hollow and of no use. the seed and leaves have a chilling quality, and it is this that causes death; the body begins to grow cold at the extremities. the remedy lies in using the warming nature of wine before the vital parts are reached; but taken in wine hemlock is invariably fatal. a juice is extracted from the leaves and blossom, for the best time to do so is when the hemlock is in flower. a better juice is extracted from the crushed seed and thickened in the sun for making into lozenges. it causes death by thickening the blood — this is its other outstanding property — and for this reason spots are to be seen on the bodies of those who have been killed in this way. this juice is used instead of water as a solvent for drugs. there is also made from it a poultice to cool the stomach. its chief use however is as a local application round the eyes to check summer fluxes and to allay pains in them. it forms an ingredient of eye salves, and it checks all catarrhs generally. the leaves also relieve every kind of swelling, pain or flux. anaxilaus is responsible for the statement that if the breasts are rubbed with hemlock from adult maidenhood onwards they will always remain firm. what is certain is that an application of hemlock to the breasts of women in childbed dries up their milk, and to rub it on the testicles at the time of puberty acts as an antaphrodisiac. i should not like to give directions about remedies in which hemlock is recommended to be taken by the mouth. the most powerful hemlock grows at susa in parthia; the next in laconia, crete and asia; in greece however the strongest is found around megara, after which comes that of attica. 