tithymallus is called 'milky plant' by us romans, sometimes 'goat lettuce.' it is said that, if letters are traced on the body with its milk and then allowed to dry, on being sprinkled with ash the letters become visible. and it is by this means, rather than by a letter, that some lovers have preferred to address unfaithful wives. the kinds of it are many, the first being surnamed characias, which is also considered the male plant. five or six branches, a cubit long, as thick as a finger, red and juicy; the leaves at the root are very like those of the olive, and on the top of the stem is a head a like that of the rush. it grows on rough ground near the sea. the seed is gathered in autumn together with the head; after being left to get dry in the sun it is pounded and stored away; as to the juice, as soon as down begins to form on fruit, twigs are broken off, and juice therefrom is caught on meal of bitter vetch or on figs and left to get dry with them. five drops are enough to be caught on each fig, and it is reported that a dropsical patient on taking a fig has as many motions as the fig has caught drops of juice. when the juice is being collected care must be taken that it does not touch the eyes. a juice is also extracted from pounded leaves, but one less efficacious than the former. a decoction too is made from the branches. the seed is also used, boiled down with honey, to make purgative pills. the seed is also inserted with wax into hollow teeth. a decoction too of the root in wine or oil is used as a monthwash. the juice is applied locally for lichen; it is taken internally as a purge, being both an emetic and an aperient; apart from this it is bad for the stomach. taken in drink with the addition of salt it brings away phlegm, but to bring away bile saltpetre must be added; if it is desired that the purging shall be by stool, the drink should be vinegar and water; if by vomiting, raisin wine or hydromel. a moderate draught is made up with three oboli. it is better taken on a fig, and after food. the juice burns the throat slightly; for it is of so heating a nature that, applied externally by itself to the body, it raises blisters as fire does, and so it is sometimes used as a cautery. 