equisaetum, called hippuris by the greeks, and found fault with by me when i discussed meadow land, it is in fact hair of the earth resembling horse hair - reduces the spleen of runners if as much as the pot will hold is boiled down to one third in new earthenware, and taken in drink for three days in doses of one hemina. there must be abstinence from fatty foods for at least one day previously. the greeks hold various views about this plant; some under the same name speak of a dark plant with leaves like those of the pine, assuring us that, so wonderful is its nature, its mere touch stanches a patient's bleeding; some call it hippuris, others ephedron, others anabasis. their account is that it grows near trees, which it climbs, and hangs down in many dark, rush-like hairs as if from a horse's tail; that its little branches are jointed, and its leaves few, slender and small; that the seed is round, resembling that of coriander, that its root is ligneous, and that it grows mostly in plantations. its property is to brace the body. its juice, kept in the nostrils, checks haemorrhage therefrom, and it also checks looseness of the bowels. taken in a sweet wine, in doses of three cyathi, it is good for dysentery, promotes passing of urine, and cures cough and orthopnoea, ruptures also and spreading sores. the leaves are taken in drink for complaints of the bowels and bladder; the plant itself reduces intestinal hernia. the greeks recognise yet another hippuris, which has shorter, softer and paler hairs, making a very useful application in vinegar for sciatica, and also for cuts, as it stanches the flow of blood. nymphaea also beaten up is applied to wounds from blows, and peucedanum with cypress seed is taken in drink if blood is brought up through the mouth or flows from the lower passages. sideritis has such a powerful effect that if bandaged to a gladiator's wound, however recent, it stops the bleeding, as does also the ash or cinders of fennel-giant, though more efficacious still is the fungus that grows about its root. 