for diseases of women a very good general remedy is the black seed, taken in hydromel, of the plant paeonia; its root also has the same property. an emmenagogue is seed of panaces with wormwood, and a sudorific emmenagogue is scordotis, taken internally or applied locally. betony in doses of one drachma to three cyathi of wine is taken for all uterine affections, and for those that result from childbirth. excessive menstruation is checked by an application of achillia or a sitz bath in a decoction of it. to the breasts is applied henbane seed in wine - but to the uterus henbane root in a plaster ... and also chelidonia. a pessary of panaces roots brings away retarded afterbirth or the dead foetus. the uterus is purged by panaces, taken by itself in wine, and by a pessary of it with honey. polemonia taken in wine forces out the afterbirth, and the fumes of it when burnt correct the uterus. juice of the lesser centaury taken in drink or used as a fomentation is an emmenagogue, and the root of the greater centaury, used in the same ways, is good for uterine pains, while if it is scraped and applied as a pessary it brings away a dead foetus. plantain is applied as a pessary in wool for pain in the uterus; for hysterical suffocation it is taken in drink. but it is dittany that is of the greatest efficacy; it is an emmenagogue, and forces out the foetus when dead or lying transversely - an obolus of the leaves is taken in water - being so efficacious in these respects that it is not even introduced into the bedroom of pregnant women. not only when taken in drink but also when used as embrocation or a fumigation it has medicinal power. bastard dittany is very nearly as good, but for an emmenagogue it is boiled down with neat wine, the dose being one denarius by weight. very many however are the ways in which aristolochia does good, for it is an emmenagogue, hastens the afterbirth, and brings away a dead foetus; myrrh and pepper being added it is taken in drink or used as a pessary. it also checks prolapsus of the uterus, whether used as fomentation, fumigation or pessary, especially the slender aristolochia. hysterical suffocations and delayed menstruation are relieved by agaric taken in doses of three oboli to a cyathus of old wine, by a pessary of peristereos in fresh lard, and by antirrhinon with rose oil and honey. the root also of thessalian nymphaea cures uterine pain when used as a pessary; taken in dark-red wine it checks excessive menstruation; on the contrary, root of cyclamen is an emmenagogue if taken in drink or a used as a pessary; a sits bath in the decoction is a remedy for troubles of the bladder. cissanthemos taken in drink forces out the afterbirth and heals the uterus. the upper part of the root of xiphium is an emmenagogue, the dose being a drachma taken in vinegar. peucedanum calms hysterical suffocations by its smell when burnt; leucorrhoea is purged especially by psyllion in doses of one drachma to three cyathi of water. seed of mandrake taken in drink purges the uterus; a pessary of its juice is an enimenagogue and brings away a dead foetus. excessive menstruation again is checked by mandrake seed with live sulphur; on the contrary, menstruation is promoted by batrachium, taken in drink or food, a plant which, though when raw it has, as i have said, a burning taste, is made agreeable, when cooked, by salt, oil and cummin. daucum in drink readily acts as an emmenagogue, and readily brings away the afterbirth; fumigation with ladanum corrects the uterus, and the plant is applied locally for pain there and ulceration. scammony taken in drink or used as a pessary forces out a dead foetus. either kind of hypericum, used as a pessary, acts as an eminenagogue; pre-eminently so, however, as hippocrates believes, does crethmos, the seed, or the skin of the root, being taken in wine; it also brings away the afterbirth, and taken in water is helpful in hysterical suffocations, as is the root of geranion, which is specific for the afterbirth and for inflation of the uterus. hippuris, taken in drink and applied as a pessary, purges the uterus, as does polygonus taken in drink. the root of alcima too is an emmenagogue, leaves of plantain a violent one, as is also agaric in hydromel. artemisia beaten up is good for the uterus, applied as a pessary in iris oil or with fig or with myrrh. its root taken in drink purges the uterus so violently that it expels a dead foetus. a sitz bath of a decoction of the branches is an enimenagogue, and also hastens the afterbirth; so too acts a drachma of the leaves taken in drink. for all the same purposes the leaves are also good when merely applied with barley meal to the base of the abdomen. acoron too is beneficial for internal diseases of women, and so is either kind of conyza, and also crethmos. the two kinds of anthyllis, taken in wine, are very useful for uterine troubles, for griping pains there, and for delay of the afterbirth. callithrix used for fomentations is healing to the uterus, removes albugo on the head, and beaten up in oil stains the hair. geranion taken in a white wine, and hypocisthis taken in a red, check excessive menstruation. hyssop relieves hysteria. the root of vervain, taken in water, is a sovereign remedy for all troubles at or after childbirth. some physicians prescribe pencedanum in dark-red wine mixed with crushed cypress seed. but seed of psyllixun, boiled in water and taken while still warm, relieves all fluxes of the uterus. symphyton beaten up in dark-red wine promotes menstruation. scordotis taken in drink hastens delivery, the dose being a drachma of the juice in four cyathi of hydromel. leaves of dittany given in water are excellent for this purpose. it is an established fact that a single obolus of them by weight immediately brings away the foetus, even if it is dead in the uterus, without any distress to the lying-in woman. good in a similar way is bastard dittany, but slower, also cyclamen used as an amulet, cissanthemos taken in drink, and powdered betony in hydromel. 