polygonum is the name given by the greeks to the plant we romans call sanguinaria. it does not rise from the ground, has leaves like those of rue, and resembles grass. its juice poured into the nostrils checks epistaxis, and taken with wine stays haemorrhage in any part of the body and the spitting of blood. those who hold that there are several kinds of polygonum would have this to be considered the male plant, and to be so named because of the great number of its seeds or from its being a shrub with close-packed branches. some call it polygonaton from its many joints, others thalattias or carcinothron or clema, many myrtopetalum. there are also to be found some who say that this kind is the female, and that the male is larger, less dark, with the joints closer together, and swelling with seed under all the leaves. however this may be, the property of these plants is to be astringent and to cool. their seed relaxes the bowels, and taken in larger doses is diuretic; it checks catarrhs, and if these have not occurred it is of no uses the leaves are applied to a heated stomach, and also used to make liniment for a painful bladder and for erysipclas. the juice is also dropped into purulent ears and painful eyes. it used also to be given by itself in doses of two cyathi, before the paroxysms of agues, especially tertian and quartan, also for cholera, dysentery and a relaxed stomach. the third kind, called orion, grows on mountains and is like a tender reed. it has one stem with knots close together and fitted one into another, leaves resembling those of the pitch pine, and a root of no medicinal use. this kind is less efficacious than those already mentioned, and used especially for sciatica. the fourth kind is called wild polygonum, a shrub that is almost a tree; it has a ligneous root, a red trunk like that of the cedar, branches like those of spartum, two spans long, and with three or four dark, knotted joints. this kind too is of an astringent nature, and tastes like a quince. it is boiled down in water to one third, or dried and powdered for sprinkling on ulcerations of the mouth and excoriated bruises, but for sore gums the plant itself is chewed. it arrests corrosive ulcers, and all those that spread or are slow to heal; for frostbite however it is specific. herbalists also use it for quinsy; for headache they make a chaplet of it which they place on the head; while to cure eye fluxes they put one round the neck. for tertian ague some pluck it with the left hand and attach it as an amulet, and for haemorrhage also. there is no other plant that they keep in a dry state more than they do polygonum. 