to sit in the presence of pregnant women, or when medicine is being given to patients, with the fingers interlaced comb-wise, is to be guilty of sorcery, a discovery made, it is said, when alcmena was giving birth to hercules. the sorcery is worse if the hands are clasped round one knee or both, and also to cross the knees first in one way and then in the other. for this reason our ancestors forbade such postures at councils of war or of officials, on the ground that they were an obstacle to the transaction of all business. they also forbade them, indeed, to those attending sacred rites and prayers; but to uncover the head at the sight of magistrates they ordered, not as a mark of respect, but (our authority is varro) for the sake of health, for the habit of baring the head gives it greater strength. when something has fallen into the eye, it does good to press down the other; when water gets into the right ear, to jump with the left leg, leaning the head towards the right shoulder; if into the left ear, to jump in the contrary way; if saliva provokes a cough, for another person to blow on the forehead; if the uvula is relaxed, for another to hold up the top of the head a with his teeth; if there is pain in the neck, to rub the back of the knees, and to rub the neck for pain in the back of the knees; to plant the feet on the ground for cramp in feet or legs when in bed; or if the cramp is on the left side to seize with the right hand the big toe of the left foot and vice versa; to rub the extremities with pieces of fleece to step shivers or violent nose-bleeding; with linen or papyrus the tip of the genitals and the middle of the thigh to check incontinence of urine; for weakness of the stomach to press together the feet or dip the hands into very hot water. moreover, to refrain from talking is healthful for many reasons. maecenas melissus, we are told, imposed a three-year silence on himself because of spitting of blood after convulsions. but if any danger threatens those thrown down, climbing, or prostrate, and as a guard against blows, to hold the breath is an excellent protection, a discovery which, i have stated, we owe to an animal. to drive an iron nail into the place first struck by the head of an epileptic in his fall is said to be deliverance from that malady. for severe pain in the kidneys, loins or bladder, it is supposed to be soothing if the patient voids his urine while lying on his face in the tub of the bath. to tie up wounds with the hercules knot makes the healing wonderfully more rapid, and even to tie daily the girdle with this knot is said to have a certain usefulness, for demetrius wrote a treatise in which he states that the number four is one of the prerogatives of hercules, giving reasons why four cyathi or sextarii at a time should not be drunk. for ophthalmia it is good to rub behind the ears, and for watery eyes the forehead. from the patient himself it is a reliable omen that, as long as the pupils of his eyes reflect an image, a fatal end to an illness is not to be feared. 