as to the use of woman's milk, it is agreed that it is the sweetest and most delicate of all, very useful in long fevers and coeliac disease, especially the milk of a woman who has already weaned her baby. for nausea of the stomach, in fevers, and for gnawing pains, it is found most efficacious, also with frankincense for gatherings on the breasts. it is very beneficial to an eye that is bloodshot from a blow, in pain, or suffering from a flux, if it is milked straight into it, more beneficial still if honey is added and juice of narcissus a or powdered incense. for all purposes, moreover, a woman's milk is more efficacious if she has given birth to a boy, and much the most efficacious is hers, who has borne twin boys and herself abstains from wine and the more acrid foods. mixed moreover with liquid white of eggs, and applied to the forehead on wool soaked in it, it checks fluxes of the eyes. but if a toad has squirted its fluid into the eye it is a splendid remedy; for the bite also of the toad it is drunk and poured in drops into the wound. it is asserted that one who has been rubbed with the milk of mother and daughter together never needs to fear eye trouble for the rest of his life. affections of the ears also are successfully treated by the milk mixed with a little oil, or, if there is any pain from a blow, warmed with goose grease. if there is an offensive smell from the ears, as usually happens in illnesses of long standing, wool is put into them soaked in milk in which honey has been dissolved. when jaundice has left traces remaining in the eyes, the milk together with elaterium is dropped into them. a draught of woman's milk is especially efficacious against the poison of the sea-hare, of the buprestis, or, as aristotle tells us, of dorycnium, and for the madness caused by drinking henbane. combined with hemlock it is also prescribed as a liniment for gout; others make it up with the suint of wool and goose grease, in the form that is also used as an application for pains of the uterus. a draught also acts astringently upon the bowels, as rabirius writes, and is an emmenagogue. the milk of a woman however who has borne a girl is excellent, but only for curing spots on the face. lung affections also are cured by woman's milk, and if attic honey is mixed with it and the urine of a child before puberty, a single spoonful of each, i find that worms a too are driven from the ears. the mother of a boy gives a milk a taste of which, they say, prevents dogs from going mad. 