but i shall begin with man seeking aid for himself out of himself, and at the outset there meet us a most baffling puzzle. the blood too of gladiators is drunk by epileptics as though it were a draught of life, though we shudder with horror when in the same arena we look at even the beasts doing the same thing. but, by heaven!, the patients think it most effectual to suck from a man himself warm, living blood, and putting their lips to the to drain the very life, although it is not the custom of men to apply their mouths at all to the wounds even of wild beasts. others seek to secure the leg-marrow and the brain of infants. not a few among the greeks have even spoken of the flavour of each organ and limb, going into all details, not excluding nail parings; just as though it could be thought health for a man to become a beast, and to deserve disease as punishment in the very process of healing. and, by heaven!, well deserved is the disappointment if these remedies prove of no avail. to look at human entrails is considered sin; what must it be to eat them? who was the first, osthanes, to think of such devices as yours? for it is you who must bear the blame, you destroyer of human rights and worker of horrors; you were their first founder, in order, i suppose, to perpetuate your memory. who first thought of chewing one by one human limbs? what soothsaying guided him? what origin could your medical practices have had? who made magic potions more innocent than their remedies? granted that foreigners and barbarians had discovered the rites, did the greeks also make these arts their own? there is extant a treatise of democritus stating that one complaint is more benefited by bones from the head of a criminal, and other complaints by those of a friend or guest. moreover, apollonius put in writing that to scrape sore gums with the tooth of a man killed by violence is most efficacious, and meletos that the gall of a human being cures cataract. artemon treated epilepsy with draughts of water drawn from a spring by night and drunk out of the skull of a man killed but not cremated. from the skull of a man hanged antaeus made pills to cure the bites of a mad dog. even quadrupeds too have been cured by remedies taken from a man; to cure flatulence in oxen their horns have been pierced and human bones inserted; for sick pigs wheat has been given which had remained for a whole night where a man had been killed or cremated. far from me and my writings be such horrors. i shall speak not of sins but of aids, such as when will prove an effective remedy the milk of lying-in women, or human saliva, or contact with a human body, and the like. i do not indeed hold that life ought to be so prized that by any and every means it should be prolonged. you holding this view, whoever you are, will none the less die, even though you may have lived longer through foulness or sin. wherefore let every man consider that first among the remedies for his soul is this: that of all the blessings given to man by nature none is greater than a timely death, and herein the brightest feature is that each man can have the power to bestow it on himself. 