almost as legendary is the crocodile, in its nature a also — i mean the famous one, which is amphibious; for there are two kinds of crocodiles. his teeth from the right jaw, worn as an amulet on the right arm, are (if we believe it) aphrodisiac, while the dog teeth, stuffed with frankincense (for they are hollow), drive away the intermittent fevers if the sick man can be kept for five days from seeing the person who fastened them on. it is said that pebbles taken from his belly have a similar power to check feverish shivers as they come on. for the same reason the egyptians rub their sick with its fat. the other kind of crocodile is similar to this, though much smaller in size, living only on land and eating very sweet-scented flowers. its intestines therefore are much in demand, being hued with fragrant stuff called crocodilea, which with leek juice makes a very useful salve for affections of the eyes, and to treat cataract or films. applied also with cyprus oil crocodile removes blotches appearing on the face, with water indeed all those diseases the nature of which is to spread over the face, and it also clears the complexion. it removes freckles, pimples, and all spots; two-oboli doses are taken in oxymel for epilepsy, and a pessary made of it acts as an emmenagogue. the best kind is very shiny, friable, and extremely light, fermenting when rubbed between the fingers. it is washed in the same way as white lead. they adulterate it with starch or cimoliau chalk, but mostly with the dung of starlings, which they catch and feed on nothing but rice. we are assured that there is no more useful remedy for cataract than to anoint the eyes with crocodile's gall and honey. they say that fumigation with the intestines and the rest of its body is of benefit to women with uterine trouble, as it is to wrap them up in a fleece impregnated with its steam. ashes from burning the skin of either kind of crocodile, applied in vinegar to the parts in need of surgery, or even the fumes, cause no pain to be felt from the lancet. the blood of either kind, if the eyes are anointed with it, improves the vision and removes eye scars. the body itself, boiled without the head and feet, is eaten for sciatica and cures chronic cough, especially that of children, as well as lumbago. crocodiles also have a fat, a touch of which makes hair fall out. used as embrocation this protects from crocodiles, and is poured by drops into their bites. the heart, tied on in the wool of a black sheep, the firstborn of its mother, the wool having no other colour intermixed, is said to drive away quartan fevers. 