to these animals i will add others very like them and equally foreign, taking first the chamaeleon, thought by democritus worthy of a volume to itself, each part of the body receiving separate attention. it afforded me great amusement to read an exposure of greek lies and fraud. the chamaeleon is also as big as the crocodile just mentioned, differing only in the greater curve of the spine and in the size of its tail. people think it the most timid of animals, and that it is for this reason it continually changes its colour. over the hawk family it has very great power, for as a hawk flies overhead, it is brought down to the chamaeleon, they say, and made an unresisting prey for other animals to tear. democritus relates that its head and throat, if burnt on logs of oak, cause storms of rain and thunder, as does the liver if burnt on tiles. the rest of what he says is of the nature of sorcery, and although i think that it is untrue. i shall omit all, except where something must be refuted by being laughed at; examples are as follow. the right eye, plucked from the living animal and added to goat's milk, removes white ulcers on the eyes; the tongue, worn as an amulet, the perils of childbirth. the same eye, if in the house, is favourable to childbirth; if brought in, very dangerous. the tongue, taken from the living animal, controls the results of cases in the courts; the heart, tied on with black wool of the first shearing, overcomes quartan fevers. the right front foot, tied as an amulet to the left arm by hyena skin, is powerful protection against robbery and tenors of the night, and the right teat against fears and panic. the left foot however is roasted in a furnace with the plant that also is called chamaeleon, an unguent is added, and the lozenges thus made are stored away in a wooden vessel and, if we believe it, make the owner invisible to others. the right shoulder has power to overcome adversaries and public enemies, especially if a person throws away sinews of the same animal and treads on them. but as to the left shoulder, i am ashamed to repeat the grotesque magic that democritus assigns to it; how any dreams you like be may sent to any person you like; how these dreams are dispelled by the right foot, just as the torpor caused by the right foot is dispelled by the left flank. in this way headache is cured by sprinkling on the head wine in which either side of a chamaeleon has been soaked. if sow's milk is mixed with the ash of the left thigh or foot, gout is caused by rubbing the feet with the mixture. it is practically a current belief that anointing the eyes for three days with the gall is a cure for opaqueness of the eye and cataract, that serpents run away if the gall is dropped into fire, that weasels run together when it is thrown into water, while hairs are removed from the body when it is rubbed therewith. democritus relates that the same result comes from applying the liver with the lung of the bramble toad; that moreover the liver makes of no effect love charms and philtres, curing melancholy also if the juice of the herb helenium is drunk in a chamaeleon's skin; that the intestines and their content (although the animal lives without food) with the urine of apes, if smeared on the door of an enemy, brings on him the hatred of all men; that by its tail rivers and rushing waters are stayed and serpents put to sleep; that the tail also, if treated with cedar and myrrh and tied on to a twin palm-branch, divides the water struck with it, so that all within becomes plain. would that democritus had been touched with such a branch, seeing that he assures us that by it wild talk is restrained! it is clear that a man, in other respects of sound judgement and of great service to humanity, fell very low through his over-keenness to help mankind. 