of the remedies derived from man, the first raises a most important question, and one never settled: have words and formulated incantations any effect? if they have, it would be right and proper to give the credit to mankind. as individuals, however, all our wisest men reject belief in them, although as a body the public at all times believes in them unconsciously. in fact the sacrifice of victims without a prayer is supposed to be of no effect; without it too the gods are not thought to be properly consulted. moreover, there is one form of words for getting favourable omens, another for averting evil, and yet another for a commendation. we see also that our chief magistrates have adopted fixed formulas for their prayers; that to prevent a word's being omitted or out of place a reader dictates beforehand the prayer from a script; that another attendant is appointed as a guard to keep watch, and yet another is put in charge to maintain a strict silence; that a piper plays so that nothing but the prayer is heard. remarkable instances of both kinds of interference are on record: cases when the noise of actual ill omens has ruined the prayer, or when a mistake has been made in the prayer itself; then suddenly the head of the liver, or the heart, has disappeared from the entrails, or these have been doubled, while the victim was standing. there has come down to us a striking example of ritual in that with which the decii, father and son, devoted themselves; extant too is the plea of innocence uttered by the vestal tuccia when, accused of unchastity, she carried water in a sieve, in the year of the city six hundred and nine. our own generation indeed even saw buried alive in the cattle market a greek man and a greek woman, and victims from other peoples with whom at the time we were at war. the prayer used at this ceremony is wont to be dictated by the master of the college of the quindecimviri, and if one reads it one is forced to admit that there is power in ritual formulas, the events of eight hundred and thirty years showing this for all of them. it is believed today that our vestal virgins by a spell root to the spot runaway slaves, provided they have not left the city bounds, and yet, if this view is once admitted, that the gods hear certain prayers, or are moved by any form of words, the whole question must be answered in the affirmative. our ancestors, indeed, reported such wonders again and again, and that, most impossible of all, even lightning can be brought by charms from the sky, as i have mentioned on the proper occasion. 