of remedies common to animals the next in repute is fat, especially pig's fat, which to the men of old was not a little sacred. at any rate brides even today touch ritually the doorposts with it on entering their homes. lard is matured in two ways, with salt or by itself; it is so much the more beneficial when matured. the name axungia (axle-grease) is the one adopted by the greeks also in their writings. nor is the cause of its properties a mystery, for the pig feeds on the roots of plants, so that there are very many uses even for its dung. therefore i shall not speak of other grease than that of the pig. by far the more beneficial is that from a sow that has not littered, [but much snore excellent is that of boars]. axle-grease then is used for softening, warming, dispersing, and cleansing. certain medical men recommend for gout a mixture of it with goose grease, bull suet and suint; if however the pain should persist, they add wax, myrtle berries, resin, and pitch. unsalted axle-grease is good for bums or frostbite; for chilblains add equal measures of barley-ash and gall nuts. it is also beneficial for chafed limbs, and relieves weariness and fatigue from a journey. fresh axle-grease, three ounces in three cyathi of wine with honey added, is boiled down for chronic cough. old grease taken in pills cures even consumption, but it must have matured without salt, for salt grease is not recommended at all except where cleansing is required and where there is no ulceration. some boil down three ounces of axle-grease and of honey wine in three cyathi of wine to treat consumption, recommending that on every fourth day liquid pitch should be taken in egg. poultices of it are applied to the sides, chest, and shoulders of consumptive patients, and so great is its power that even when fastened to the knees as an amulet the taste comes back to the mouth and they seem to be spitting it out. fat from a sow that has not littered is used with very great advantage by women as a cosmetic, but for itch any kind is good, mixed with a third part of beef suet and pitch, all being warmed together. unsalted axle-grease used as a pessary nourishes the foetus when there is the threat of a miscarriage. mixed with white lead or litharge lard gives to scars the colour of the surrounding skin, and with sulphur cleans scabrous nails. it cures too the falling-out of hair, and with a quarter of a gall nut sores on the head of women; as a fumigant it is good for eyelashes. it is also given to consumptives, in doses of one ounce with a hemina of old wine boiled down until of the whole three ounces remain; some add also a little honey. with lime it is applied to superficial abscesses, also to boils and to indurations of the breasts. it cures ruptures, sprains, cramps, and dislocations; with white hellebore corns, chaps, and callosities; and parotid swellings with pounded earthenware that has contained salted food, the same being also good for scrofulous sores. rubbing in the bath with this fat removes irritation and pimples, and administered in yet another way it is good for gout: mixed with old oil, crushed sarcophagus stone, and cinquefoil pounded in wine, or with lime, or with ash. a special plaster too is made of 75 denarii by weight of lard mixed with 100 of litharge, very useful for inflamed ulcers. they also think it useful to treat such sores with boar's grease, and to apply it with resin to those that spread. the men of old used lard in particular for greasing the axles of their vehicles, that the wheels might revolve more easily, and in this way it received its name. so also with that rust of the wheels it made a useful medicament for affections of the anus and of the male genitals. the old physicians valued most the fat taken from the kidneys: removing the veins they rubbed it briskly with rain water, boiled it down several times in new earthenware, and then finally stored it away. it is agreed that when salted it has increased power of softening, warming, and dispersing, and that it is more useful when washed with wine. masurius tells us that the men of old gave the palm to wolf's fat; that, he said, was why new brides were wont to smear with it the door-posts to keep out all evil drugs. 