those who have swallowed quicksilver find a remedy in lard. by drinking ass's milk poisons are neutralized, especially if henbane has been swallowed, or mistletoe, hemlock, sea-hare, opocarpathum, pharicum, dorycnium, or if milk has done harm by curdling, for there is poison in the first coagulation of it. i shall give many other uses of ass's milk, but it should be remembered to use it when fresh, or nearly fresh and warmed, for no milk loses its power more rapidly. the bones too of the ass, crushed and boiled, are given for the poison of the sea-hare. all these remedies are more efficacious from the wild ass. about wild horses the greeks have not written, because greek lands did not breed them, but it must be inferred that all remedies from them are more potent than from the tame animal. by mare's milk are neutralized the poison of the sea-hare and arrow poisons. the greeks had not the urus or the bison to try out, although the indian jungles swarm with wild cattle. all the same remedies from them, however, it is reasonable to believe, are proportionally more efficacious. so cow's milk too is said to neutralize all poisons, especially those mentioned before, and if ephemerum has gone down the throat or spanish fly administered, and to expel by vomiting all the noxious substances; goat broth also to act in the same way on spanish fly. those poisons however that cause fatal ulceration are relieved by veal-suet or beef-suet. but for leeches swallowed in drink butter, with vinegar warmed by hot iron, is a remedy, butter even by itself being beneficial against poisoning, for if one has no oil butter is a good substitute. it and honey together cure the bites of millipedes. tripe broth and also veal suet are thought to neutralize the poisons mentioned above, especially however aconite and hemlock. fresh goat-cheese is a remedy for those who have taken mistletoe in drink, as is goat's milk for spanish fly, and with taminian grapes for swallowing ephenserum. goat's blood boiled with the marrow is taken for arrow poison, kid's for the other poisons, kid's rennet for mistletoe, white chamaeleon and bull's blood, for which another remedy is hare's rennet in vinegar; for the stingray however, and for the stings or bites of all sea creatures, hare's rennet or that of a kid or lamb, the dose being a drachma by weight in wine. hare's rennet is also an ingredient of antidotes against poisons. the moth too that flutters to the lamplight is counted among noxious drugs; an antidote is goat's liver, as is its gall for sorcerer's potions made from the field weasel. at this point i shall return to the various kinds of diseases. 