loose teeth are made tight by the ash of deer's horn, which relieves their pain, whether used as dentifrice or in a mouth wash. some consider more efficacious for all the same purposes the unburnt horn ground to powder. dentifrices are made in either way. a grand remedy too is a wolf's head reduced to ash. it is certain that bones are generally found in the excrements of wolves. used as an amulet these have the same effect, and hare's rennet relieves toothache if poured through the ear. hare's head reduced to ash makes a dentifrice, and with nard added corrects a bad odour from the mouth. some prefer to add as well ash from the burnt heads of mice. there is found in the flank of a hare a bone like a needle, with which they recommend aching teeth to be scraped. the ignited pastern bone of an ox, applied to teeth that are loose and aching, tightens them; the ash of the same with myrrh makes a dentifrice. the bones also of pigs' feet, when burnt, have the same effect, as have the bones from the sockets round which the hipbones move. it is well known that by these, when inserted into the throat of draught cattle, worms are cured, that by them, when burnt, teeth are tightened, as they are, when loosened through a blow, by ass's milk, by the ash of an ass's teeth, or by the lichen of a horse poured with oil through the ear. this lichen is not the same as hippomanes, which being pernicious on several grounds i omit, but an excrescence on the knees of homes and above their hoofs. moreover, in the heart of horses is found a bone like very large canine teeth; with this they prescribe the painful tooth to be scraped, or with the tooth, corresponding to the place of the aching tooth, extracted from the jawbone of a dead horse. anaxilaus has informed us that the fluid coming from mares when covered, if ignited on lamp wicks, shows weird appearances of horses' heads, and similarly with asses. but hippomanes has such virulent and magical properties that, added to the molten bronze for a figure of an olympian mare, it maddens any stallions brought near with a raving sexual lust. teeth are also healed by workman's glue boiled down in water, applied, and shortly after taken off, the teeth immediately to be rinsed in wine in which the rind of sweet pomegranates has been boiled. it is also thought efficacious to rinse the teeth in goat's milk or bull's gall. the ash from a freshly-killed she-goat's pastern bones makes a popular dentifrice, and, so that i need not repeat myself, the same is true of nearly all female farm quadrupeds. 