for i shall arrange remedies according to each malady, serpents' bites requiring very full treatment. nobody is unaware that deer are their deadly enemies, in that they drag any they may find from their holes and eat them. not only, however, when whole and alive are they the enemy of serpents; the parts of their body are so also. the fumes from their horns when burnt, as i have said, keep serpents away; but if the topmost bones of a stag's neck have been burnt, serpents are said to assemble. the skins of the same animal make a bed in which one may sleep without fear of snakes, and the rennet taken in vinegar prevents being bitten; if it is merely handled, in fact, on that day no serpent strikes. a stag's testicles dried, or the dried male organ, are in wine a salutary drink; so is that stomach which is called centipellio. serpents keep away from those who have about them merely a stag's tooth, or have been rubbed with the marrow or suet of stag or fawn. as i have already pointed out, to sovereign remedies is preferred the rennet of a young stag cut from his mother's uterus. stag's blood, if with it are burnt on a lentisk-wood fire dracontion, cunilago and anchusa, is said to collect serpents together; then they scatter, it is said, if in place of blood pyrethrum is added. in my greek authorities i find mentioned an animal that they call ophion, smaller than a stag and like it only in its hair, which is found nowhere save in sardinia. i believe that it is extinct today, and therefore i give no remedies from it. the brain and blood of a wild boar is another approved protection against serpents, as is its liver preserved and taken in wine with rue, likewise the fat with honey and resin, and given in the same way boar's liver and the fibre only of the gall-bladder, the dose being four denarii by weight, or the brain taken in wine. the horn or hair of she-goats, when burnt, is said to keep serpents away, and the ash from the horn, whether taken in drink or applied, to be efficacious for their bites; as are also draughts of their milk with taminian grapes, or of their urine with squill vinegar; so too an application of goat cheese with marjoram, or of goat suet with wax. thousands of remedies besides from the goat are given in prescriptions, as will be pointed out; ibis is surprising to me, because it is said never to be free from fever. the potency of the wild-goat — goats are a very numerous species, as i have said is greater, but a he-goat too has a potency of its own. democritus also holds that if a goat is the only one at a birth he supplies more efficacious remedies. an application also of she-goat's dung boiled down in vinegar is approved treatment for snake bite, and so is the ash of fresh dung boiled down in wine; speaking generally, slow convalescents from snake bite recover best in a goat's stable. those who want more efficacious treatment apply immediately as a plaster a slaughtered she-goat's belly cut open, including any dung found inside. others fumigate with fresh kid-meat, not taking away the hair, and with the same fumes drive snakes away. they also use a fresh kid-skin for the wound, or the flesh and dung of a horse fed by pasture and the rennet of a hare in vinegar; the same for scorpions and the shrewmouse. it is said that rubbing with hare's rennet protects froth being stung or bitten. those stung by a scorpion are helped by she-goat's dung, more efficaciously if it is boiled down in vinegar; the fat and broth of the decoction, if drunk, helps those too who have swallowed a buprestis. moreover, if anyone says in the ear of an ass that he has been stung by a scorpion, the mischief, it is said, at once passes over into the animal, all venomous creatures run away from an ass's burning lung, and those stung by a scorpion are benefited by fumigation with the dung of a calf. 