bear's grease mixed with ladanum and adiantum prevents the hair from falling out, and cures mange, and scanty eyebrows, if mixed with the lamp-black from lamp wicks and the soot that collects in their nozzles. mixed with wine it cures dandruff. good too for the last is the ash of deer's horn in wine, good also to prevent vermin from breeding in the hair, likewise goat's gall with cimolian chalk and vinegar, the mixture being allowed to dry a little on the head; sow's gall too, and the urine of a bull. if indeed it should be old, with the addition of sulphur it also cures dandruff. it is thought that a thicker growth of hair and prevention of greyness are given by an ass's genital organ reduced to ash; this should be pounded with oil in a leaden mortar, and applied after shaving the head. they also think that thicker hair is encouraged by applying the urine of a young ass. nard is mixed with it because of its nastiness. for mange is applied warmed bull's gall with egyptian alum. running sores on the head are healed efficaciously by bull's urine, also by stale human urine with the addition of cyclamen and sulphur, more efficaciously however by the gall of a calf, which warmed with vinegar also removes nits. for sores on the head calf's suet pounded with salt is very useful. fox fat is also recommended, but especially cats' dung applied with an equal quantity of mustard; goat's horn, ground to powder or reduced to ash, a he-goat's being better, with the addition of soda, tamarisk seed, butter, and oil, the head being first shaved; this treatment is wonderful for preventing loss of hair, just as goat's meat, reduced to ash and applied with oil, darkens the eyebrows. goat's milk is said to remove nits, the dung with honey to replace hair lost by mange, likewise the hoofs reduced to ash and added to pitch. hare's flesh reduced to ash, with oil of myrtle, prevents hair from falling out. headache is relieved by drinking the water left after an ox or ass has drunk, and also, if we care to believe it, by the genital organ of a male fox fastened round the head, and by a deer's horn reduced to ashes and applied in vinegar, rose oil, or iris oil. 