to eye fluxes is applied beef suet boiled with oil; scabrous eyes are smeared with the same and deer's born reduced to ash, but the tips by themselves are thought to be more efficacious. cataract is benefited by applying round the eyes the excrement of a wolf, dimness by smearing them with its ash and attic honey, also with bear's gall, and epinyctis with wild boar's fat and rose oil. the ash of an ass's hoof smeared on the eyes with the same ass's milk removes scars and albugo. the marrow from the right front leg of an ox, pounded and added to soot, eyelashes, affections of the eyelids and of the corners of the eyes (the soot for this purpose is prepared as for a calliblepharum, best from a papyrus wick and sesame oil, the soot being wiped off with feathers into a new vessel), very efficiently however it prevents the hairs once pulled out there from growing again. from the gall of a bull with white of egg are made eye-salves, and dissolved in water they are applied for four successive days. calf suet with goose-grease and juice of ochnum is very good for affections of the eyelids. calf marrow, with equal weights of wax and of oil or rose-oil, with an egg added, is applied to indurations of the eyelids. eye fluxes are relieved by an application in warm water of soft cheese made from goat's milk, or, if there is swelling, in honey; in both cases there should be fomentation with warm whey. dry ophthalmia is cured by taking the small loins of pork, burning, pounding, and then placing them on the eyes. she-goats are said never to suffer from ophthalmia, because of certain herbs they eat, and likewise gazelles; for this reason it is recommended that at the new moon their dung should be swallowed, coated with wax. since they see equally well at night, it is thought that those who have no night vision (the greeks call them nyctalopes) are cured by the blood of a he-goat, but also by the liver of a she-goat boiled down in a dry wine. some smear the eyes with the gravy from a she-goat's roasted liver, or with its gall; they prescribe its meat as a food, and fumigation of the eyes with the steam that arises from the cooking; they also consider it important for the animal to have been of a red colour. they also wish the eyes to be fumigated with the steam of the liver boiled in a clay pot; some say that it should he roasted. the gall indeed of goats is employed in many ways; with honey for dimness; with a third part of white hellebore for opaqueness of the lens; with wine for sears, albugo, dimness, pterygia, and argema; but with cabbage juice for affections of the eyelids, the hairs being first pulled out, and the application being left to dry; with human milk for rupture of the eye-coats. for all purposes preserved gall is thought to be more efficacious. goat's dung with honey is a not unvalued ointment for eye fluxes, or the marrow for eye pains, or a hare's lung, and for dimness its gall with raisin wine or honey. wolf's fat also or pig's marrow is prescribed as an ointment for ophthalmia. but it is said that those who carry a fox's tongue in a bracelet will never suffer from ophthalmia. 