i should like to reinforce this part of my argument by adding an appeal to the personal feeling of the individual. why on the first day of the year do we wish one another cheerfully a happy and prosperous new year? why do we also, on days of general purification, choose persons with lucky names to lead the victims? why do we meet the evil eye by a special attitude of prayer, some invoking the greek nemesis, for which purpose there is at rome an image of the goddess on the capitol, although she has no latin name? why on mentioning the dead do we protest that their memory is not being attacked by us? why do we believe that in all matters the odd numbers are more powerful, as is implied by the attention paid to critical days in fevers? why at the harvest of the first-fruits do we say: 'these are old,' and pray for new ones to take their place? why do we say 'good health' to those who sneeze? this custom according to report even tiberius caesar, admittedly the most gloomy of men, insisted on even in a carriage, and some think it more effective to add to the salutation the name of the sneezer. moreover, according to an accepted belief absent people can divine by the ringing in their ears that they are the object of talk. attalus assures us that if on seeing a scorpion one says 'two,' it is checked and does not strike. the mention of scorpions reminds me that in africa nobody decides on anything without first saying 'africa,' whereas among all other peoples a man prays first for the approval of the gods. but a when a table is ready it is a universal custom, we see, to take off one's ring, since it is clear that scrupulous actions, even without words, have their powers. some people, to calm mental anxiety, carry saliva with the finger to behind the ear. there is even a proverb that bids us turn down our thumbs to show approval. in worshipping we raise our right hand to our lips and turn round our whole body, the gauls considering it more effective to make the turn to the left. all peoples agree in worshipping lightning by clucking with the tongue. if during a banquet fires have been mentioned we avert the omen by pouring water under the table. it is supposed to be a most unlucky sign for the floor to be swept while a diner is leaving the banquet, or for a table or dumbwaiter to be removed while a guest is drinking. servius sulpicius, a noble roman, has left an essay on why we should not leave the table; for in his day it was not the custom to have more tables than there were guests; for if a course or a table is recalled by a sneeze and nothing of it tasted afterwards, it is considered an evil portent, as is to eat nothing at all. these customs were established by those of old, who believed that gods are present on all occasions and at all times, and therefore left them to us reconciled even in our faults. moreover, it has been remarked that a sudden silence falls on a banquet only when the number of those present is even, and that it portends danger to the reputation of each of them. food also that fell from the hand used to be put back at least during courses, and it was forbidden to blow off, for tidiness, any dirt; auguries have been recorded from the words or thoughts of the diner who dropped food, a very dreadful omen being if the pontiff should do so at a formal dinner. in any case putting it back on the table and burning it before the lar counts as expiation. medicines set down by chance on a table before being used are said to lose their efficacy. 