it is thought that ass's milk removes wrinkles from the face, making the skin white and soft, and it is well known that some women every day bathe their cheeks in it seven times, keeping carefully to that number. poppaea, wife of the emperor nero, began this custom, even preparing her bathtubs with the milk, and for this purpose she was always attended by troops of she-asses. pituitous eruptions on the face are removed by the application of butter, the addition of white-lead being an improvement, but spreading sores by unmixed butter with a sprinkling of barley meal on top, and ulcers on the face by the membrane, still moist, that follows the birth of a calf. the following recipe may seem a trifle, but to satisfy the women i must not omit it: the pastern bone of a white bull-calf, boiled for forty days and nights until it melts to a jelly, and applied on a linen cloth, gives whiteness to the skin and smoothes away wrinkles. they say that bull's dung brings a rosy colour to the cheeks, though it is better to rub them with crocodilea, but before and after they must be bathed with cold water. brick-red spots and discolorations of the skin are removed by calf dung kneaded by hand with oil and gum, sores and cracks in the mouth by veal suet or beef suet with goose grease and juice of ocimum. there is yet another compound, veal suet with deer's marrow and white-thorn leaves pounded together. the same effect is given by marrow with resin, even if it is cow marrow, and by the broth from cow beef. an excellent cure for facial lichens is the gluey substance made from the genitals of calves, dissolved in vinegar with native sulphur, stirred up with a fig branch and applied fresh twice a day, and the same boiled down in honey and vinegar for leprous sores, which are also removed by a warm application of he-goat's liver, as is leprosy by goat's gall. moreover, leprous sores and scurf are removed by bull's gall with soda, or at the rising of the dog-star by ass's urine; spots on the face by the gall of either animal broken up in water without addition; after the skin has come away sun and winds must be avoided. a similar effect is also obtained by bull's gall or veal gall, with the seed of cunila, and the ash of deer's horn burnt at the rising of the lesser dog-star. by ass suet their natural colour is restored to scars, especially to those removed by he-goat's gall mixed with cheese, native left by lichen or leprous sores. freckles too are sulphur, and sponge ash; the consistency of the mixture should be that of honey. some have preferred to use matured gall, mixing one obolus of warm bran and four oboli of honey, the spots being first rubbed. an efficacious mixture is also he-goat's suet with melanthium, sulphur, and iris; for cracks in the lips the suet with goose grease, deer's marrow, resin, and lime. i find in my authorities that those with freckles are debarred from assisting at magic ritual. 