persons possessed of powers of witchcraft and of the evil eye, along with many peculiar characteristics of animals, i have spoken of when dealing with marvels of the nations; it is superfluous to go over the ground again. of certain men the whole bodies are beneficent, for example the members of those families that frighten serpents. these by a mere touch or by wet suction relieve bitten victims. in this class are the psylli, the marsi, and the ophiogenes, as they are called, in the island of cyprus. an envoy from this family, by name evagon, was at rome thrown by the consuls as a test into a cask of serpents, which to the general amazement licked him all over. a feature of this family, if it still survives, is the foul smell of its members in spring. their sweat also, not only their saliva, had curative powers. but the natives of tentyris, an island on the nile, are such a terror to the crocodiles that these run away at the mere sound of their voice. all these peoples, so strong their natural antipathy, can, as is well known, effect a cure by their very arrival, just as wounds grow worse on the entry of those who have ever been bitten by the tooth of snake or dog. the latter also addle the eggs of a sitting hen, and make cattle miscarry; so much venom remains from the injury once received that the poisoned are turned into poisoners. the remedy is for their hands to be first washed in water, which is then used to sprinkle on the patients. on the other hand, those who have once been stung by a scorpion are never afterwards attacked by hornets, wasps or bees. he may be less surprised at this who knows that moths do not touch a garment that has been worn at a funeral, and that snakes are with difficulty pulled out of their holes except with the left hand. one of the discoveries of pythagoras will not readily deceive you: that an uneven number of vowels in given names portends lameness, blindness, or similar disability, on the right side, an even number of vowels the same disabilities on the left. it is said that difficult labour ends in delivery at once, if over the house where is the lying-in woman there be thrown a stone or missile that has killed with one stroke each three living creatures — a human being, a boar, and a bear. a successful result is more likely if a light-cavalry spear is used, pulled out from a human body without the ground being touched. the result indeed is the same if the spear is carried indoors. so too, as orpheus and archelaus write, arrows drawn out of a body and not allowed to touch the ground act as a love-charm upon those under whom when in bed they have been placed. moreover, add these authorities, epilepsy is cured by food taken from the flesh of a wild beast killed by the same iron weapon that has killed a human being. some men have healing powers confined to parts of their body. we have mentioned the thumb of king pyrrhus and at this there used to be shown a shoulder blade of pelops, which was stated to be of ivory. many men even today have scruples about cutting hair from moles on the face. 