the tortures of stone in the bladder are relieved by the urine of a wild boar and by his bladder itself taken as food; both remedies are more efficacious if first thoroughly smoked. the bladder should be eaten boiled, and be a sow's if the patient is a woman. there are also found in the liver of these animals little stones, or hard substances like stones, white, and like those found in the liver of the common pig. these, crushed and taken in wine, are said to expel stone. his own urine is such a burden to the boar himself that unless he has voided it he is not strong enough for flight, and is overcome as if spellbound. it is said that the urine dissolves the stone. stone is also expelled by a hare's kidneys, dried and taken in wine. in the ham joints of pigs i have said there are bones the broth from which is beneficial for urinary disorders. the kidneys of an ass, dried, pounded, and given in neat wine, cure complaints of the bladder. the excrescences on the legs of horses, taken for forty days in wine or honey wine, expel stone. beneficial too is the ash of a horse's hoof in wine or water, the dung also in honey wine of she-goats, that of wild goats being more efficacious, the ash also of goat's hair, while for carbuncles on the privates are used the brains and blood of a wild boar or pig. creeping sores however in the same part are cured by the burnt liver of these animals, best if the fire is of juniper wood, mixed with paper and orpiment, by their dung reduced to ash, by ox gall with egyptian alum and myrrh, kneaded to the consistency of honey, moreover by an application of beet boiled in wine, also by beef; but running ulcers by beef suet with the marrow of a calf boiled down in wine, by goat's gall with honey and blackberry juice, even if the sores are spreading. they say that goat's dung too with honey or vinegar is beneficial, and also butter by itself. swelling of the testicles is reduced by veal suet with the addition of soda, or by calf's dung boiled down in vinegar. incontinence of urine is checked by a wild-boar's bladder, if eaten roasted, by the ash of a wild-boar's or pig's hoofs sprinkled on a drink, by the bladder of a sow burnt and taken in drink, of a kid also, or by its lung, by the brain of a hare in wine, by a hare's roasted testicles, or the rennet, with goose grease in pearl barley, or by the kidneys of an ass pounded in neat wine and drunk. the magi recommend that, after drinking in sweet wine a boar's genital organ reduced to ash, the patient should make water in a dog's bed and add a prayer, that he may not himself make water, as a dog does, in his own bed. on the other hand, the bladder of a pig is diuretic, if, without touching the ground, it is applied to the pubic part. 