the purgings of women are aided by bull's gall applied as a pessary in unwashed wool — olympias, a woman of thebes added suint and soda — by ash of deer's horn taken in drink, and uterine troubles by an application also of this, and by two-oboli pessaries of bull's gall and poppy juice. it is beneficial also to fumigate the uterus with deer's hair. it is reported that hinds, when they realise that they are pregnant, swallow a little stone which, found in their excrements or in the uterus — for it is found there also — prevents miscarriage if worn as an amulet. there are also found in the heart and in the uterus little bones that are very useful to women who are pregnant or in child-bed. but about the pumice-like stone which in a similar way is found in the uterus of cows i have spoken when dealing with the nature of oxen. the uterus is softened by an application of wolf's fat, pains there by wolf's liver, but to have eaten the flesh of the wolf is beneficial for women near delivery, or at the beginning of labour the near presence of one who has eaten it, so much so that sorceries put upon the woman are counteracted. but for such a person to enter during delivery is a deadly danger. the hare is also of great use to women. the uterus is benefited by the dried lung taken in drink, fluxes by the liver taken in water with samian earth, the afterbirth is eased by hare's rennet — the bath must be avoided the day before — by the rennet applied also with saffron and leek juice; a pessary of it in raw wool brings away a dead foetus. if the uterus of the hare is taken in food, it is believed that males are conceived; that the same result is obtained by eating its testicles and rennet; that the foetus of a hare, taken from its uterus, brings a renewed fertility to women who are passed child-bearing. but the sanies of a hare is given by the magi even to the male partner that conception may occur, and likewise to a maiden nine pellets of hare's droppings to make the breasts permanently firm. they also use for this purpose the rennet with honey as liniment, and the blood to prevent hairs plucked out from growing again. for inflation of the uterus it is beneficial to make with oil a liniment of wild boar's dung or pig's. more efficacious is the dried dung reduced to powder to sprinkle in the drink, even if the woman is suffering the pains of pregnancy or childbirth. by drinking sow's milk with honey wine childbirth is eased, while taken by itself it refills the drying breasts of nursing mothers. these swell less if rubbed round with a sow's blood. if they are painful they are soothed by drinking ass's milk, which taken with the addition of honey is also beneficial for the purgings of women. ulcerations also of the uterus are healed by the dried suet of the same animal, which applied in raw wool as a pessary softens uterine indurations, while by itself either fresh or dried suet, applied in water, acts as a depilatory. dried ass's spleen, applied in water to the breasts, produces an abundant supply of milk, and used in fumigation corrects displacement of the uterus. fumigation with ass's hoofs hastens delivery, so that even a dead foetus is extracted; only then is the treatment applied, for it kills a living infant. ass's dung applied fresh is said to be a wonderful reliever of fluxes of blood, as is also the ash of the same dung, an application which is also beneficial to the uterus. by horse's foam, applied for forty days before they first grow, hairs are prevented, also by a decoction of deer's horns, which is more beneficial if the horns are new. it is beneficial to wash out the uterus with mare's milk. but if the foetus is felt to be dead, it is expelled by taking in fresh water the excrescence from the leg of a mare, also by fumigation with the hoof or the dried dung. an injection of butter stays prolapsus of the uterus. a hardened uterus is opened by ox gall mixed with rose oil, with an external application of terebinth resin on unwashed wool. they say that prolapsus of the uterus is corrected also by fumigation with the dung of an ox, that delivery is aided, and conception also, by drinking cow's milk. it is certain that sterility may result from sufferings at childbirth. this kind of barrenness, we are assured by olympias of thebes, is cured by bull's gall, serpents' fat, copper rust and honey, rubbed on the parts before intercourse. calf's gall also, sprinkled on the uterus during menstruation just before intercourse, softens even indurations of the bowels checks the flow if rubbed on the navel, and is generally beneficial to the uterus. the amount of gall prescribed is a denarius by weight; this and a third part of poppy juice, with as much almond oil as seems to be called for. the mixture is laid on unwashed wool. a bull-calf's gall beaten up with half the quantity of honey is stored away for uterine complaints. if women about the time of conception eat roasted veal with aristolochia, they are assured that they will bring forth a male child. a calf's marrow, boiled down in wine and water with calf's suet and applied to an ulcerated uterus, is beneficial, as is the fat of foxes with the excrement of cats, the last being applied with resin and rose oil. it is thought that to fumigate the uterus with goat's horn is very beneficial. the blood of wild she-goats with sea palm acts as a depilatory, while of other she-goats the gall softens callus of the uterus if sprinkled on it, and after a menstruation causes conception; such an application also acts as a depilatory; after the hairs are pulled out it is kept on for three days. midwives assure us that a flux, however copious, is stayed by drinking the urine of a she-goat, or if an application is made of her dung. the membrane that covers the newborn offspring of she-goats, kept fill dry and taken in wine, brings away the afterbirth. to fumigate the uterus with the hairs of kids is thought to be beneficial, and it is so for a flux of blood if kid's rennet is taken in drink, or applied locally with seed of hyoscyamus. osthanes says that if the loins of a woman are rubbed thoroughly with the blood of a tick from a black wild-bull, she will be disgusted with sexual intercourse, and also with her love if she drinks the urine of a he-goat, nard being added to disguise the foul taste. 