wool has also a close affinity with eggs, the two being laid together on the forehead for eye fluxes. there is no need for the wool, when so used, to have been treated with radicula, or for anything else except to spread on it white of egg and powdered frankincense. white of egg by itself, poured into the eyes, checks fluxes and cools in laminations, although some prefer to add saffron, and eggs can take the place of water in eye salves. but for infant ophthahnia scarcely anything else is so remedial as egg mixed with fresh butter. eggs beaten up with olive oil relieve erysipelas if beet leaves are tied on top. white of egg mixed with pounded gum ammoniac sets back eyelashes, and removes spots on the face with pine nuts and a little honey. the face itself if smeared with egg is not burnt by the sun. if scalds are at once covered with egg they do not blister - some add barley flour and a pinch of salt - while sores from a burn are made wonderfully better by roasted barley with white of egg and pig's lard. the same treatment is used for affections of the anus, and even for procidence in the case of infants; for chaps on the feet the white of eggs is boiled down with two denarii by weight of white lead, an equal weight of litharge, a little myrrh, and then wine; for erysipelas is used the white of three eggs with starch. it is also said that white of egg closes wounds and expels stone from the bladder. the yolk of eggs, boiled hard, mixed with a little saffron and honey, and applied in woman's milk, relieves pains of the eyes; or it may be placed over the eyes on wool with rose oil and honey wine, or applied in honey wine with ground celery-seed and pearl barley. swallowed liquid, without letting it touch the teeth, the yolk by itself is good for cough, catarrh of the chest, and rough throats. applied externally or taken internally the raw yolk is specific for the bite of the haemorrhois. it is also good for the kidneys, and for irritation or ulceration of the bladder. for spitting of blood five yolks of egg are swallowed raw in a hemina of wine, and for dysentery they are taken with the ash of their shells, poppy juice, and wine. with the same weight of plump raisins and pomegranate rind yolk of egg is given in equal doses for three days to sufferers from coeliac affections. another way is to take the yolks of three eggs, three ounces of old bacon fat and of honey, and three cyathi of old wine, beat them up until they are of the consistency of honey, and take in water when required pieces of the size of a filbert. yet another way is to fry three eggs after steeping them whole the day before in vinegar, and to use them so for spleen diseases, but to take them in three cyathi of must for the spitting of blood. eggs are used with bulbs and honey for persistent bruises. boiled and taken in wine they also check menstruation; inflation too of the uterus if applied raw with oil and wine. they are useful too, with goose grease and rose oil, for pains in the neck; for affections of the anus also, if hardened over fire and applied while the additional benefit of the heat is still retained; for condylomata with rose oil; for burns they are hardened in water, then over hot coals; when the shells have been burned off, finally the yolks are applied in rose oil. eggs become entirely yolk (they are then called sitista) when the hen has sat upon them for three days before they are taken up. the chicks found in eggs taken with half a gall nut settle a disordered stomach, but care must be taken to eat no other food for the next two hours. there are also given to dysentery patients chicks boiled in the egg itself and added to a hemina of dry wine and the same quantity of oil and pearl barley. the membrane peeled off the shell of a raw or boiled egg heals cracks in the lips. the shell reduced to ash and taken in wine cures discharges of blood. it must be burnt without the membrane. from this ash is also made a dentitrice. it also checks menstruation if applied with myrrh. the strength of the shells is so great that no force or weight will break them when the eggs are perpendicular, but only when the oval is slightly inclined. childbirth is made easier by whole eggs, with rue, dill, and cummin, taken in wine. itch and irritation of the skin are removed by a mixture of oil, cedar-resin, and eggs; running ulcers too on the head by eggs mixed with cyclamen. for spitting of pus or blood is swallowed a raw egg warmed with juice of cutleek and an equal amount of greek honey. there are given to patients with a cough boiled eggs beaten up with honey, or raw eggs with raisin wine and an equal measure of oil. eggs are also injected for complaints of the male organs, the dose being one egg with three cyathi of raisin wine and half an ounce of starch, given after the bath; for snake bite they are applied after boiling them and beating up with the addition of cress. how helpful in many ways eggs are as food is well known, for they pass a swollen throat and incidentally by their heat soothe it. there is no other food so nourishing in sickness without overloading the stomach, and it has the nature of both food and drink. i have said that the shell is softened of eggs steeped in vinegar. eggs so prepared and kneaded into bread with flour give refreshment to patients with coeliac affections. some think it more useful, after softening them in this way, to bake them in shallow pans; when so prepared they check not only diarrhoea but also excessive menstruation; or if the attack is specially severe they are swallowed raw with flour and water, or the yolks from these eggs by themselves are boiled hard in vinegar, and then roasted with ground pepper to check diarrhoea. there is also made for dysentery an excellent remedy by pouring an egg into a new earthen vessel, and so that there may be equal quantities of all the ingredients, in the shell of this egg are measured honey, then vinegar, and oil, which are mixed, and stirred many times. the more excellent the quality of these ingredients the more sovereign will the remedy be. others substitute for oil and vinegar the same amounts of red resin and wine. there is yet another method of compounding: only the quantity of oil remains the same, and with it are boiled down together two sixtieths of a denarius of pine bark, one of the shrub i have called rhus, and five oboli of honey, but no other food must be taken until four hours have passed. many also treat colic by beating up two eggs together with four heads of garlic, warming with a hemina of wine, and so giving the mixture as a draught. to omit no attractive feature of eggs, white of egg mixed with quicklime fastens together broken glass. so great indeed is its power that wood dipped in egg will not take fire, and not even cloth stained with it will burn. but i have been speaking only about farmyard hen's eggs; there remain also other birds, the eggs of which are of great utility; about them i shall speak on the proper occasions. 