moreover, even the greasy sweat of sheep that clings to the wool under the hollows of their flanks and forelegs - it is called oesypum (suint) - has uses almost innumerable. the most prized is that obtained from attic sheep. there are several ways of preparing it, but the most approved is to take fresh-plucked wool from the parts mentioned, or first to gather the greasy sweat from any part, then warm it in a bronze pot over a slow fire, cool it again, collect in an earthen vessel the fat that floats on the top, and boil again the stuff originally used. both the fats obtained are washed in cold water, strained through linen, heated in the sun until they become white and transparent, and then stored away in a box of stennum. the test of its purity is that it should retain the strong smell of the grease, and when rubbed with the hand in water, should not melt, but become white like white-lead. it is very useful for inflammations of the eyes and hard places on the eyelids. some bake it in an earthen jar until it is no longer fatty, holding that in this condition it is a more useful remedy for sores that have eaten into the eyelids, for indurations there, and for watery itch at the corners. it heals, not only sores of the eyes, but also with goose grease those of the mouth and genitals. with melilot and butter it cures inflammations of the uterus, chaps in the anus, and condylomata. its other uses i shall set out in order later on. the sweaty grease too that gathers into pills about the tail, dried by itself and ground to powder, is wonderfully beneficial if rubbed on the teeth, even when these are loose, and on the gums when they suffer from malignant, running sores. furthermore, clean pieces of fleece are applied to blind pains, either by themselves or with sulphur added, and their ash to afflictions of the genitals, being so potent that they are even placed over medicinal applications. wool is also the best of remedies for sheep themselves if they lose their appetite and will not pasture. for if their tails are tied as tightly as possible with wool plucked therefrom they at once begin to feed, and it is said that all the tail outside the knot dies off. 