bald patches through mange are covered again with hair by an application of ash of sheep's dung with cyprus oil and honey, by the hooves, reduced to ash, of a mule of either sex, applied in myrtle oil; moreover, as our countryman varro relates, by mouse dung, which he calls also muscerdae, or by the fresh heads of flies, but the patches must first be roughened with a fig leaf. some use the blood of flies, others for ten days apply their ash with that of paper or nuts, but a third of the whole must be that of flies; others make a paste of fly ash, woman's milk, and cabbage, while some add honey only. no creature is thought to be less teachable or less intelligent than the fly; it is all the more wonderful that at the olympic sacred games, after the bull has been sacrificed to the god they call myiodes, clouds of flies depart from out olympic territory. hair lost by mange is restored by the ash of mice, their heads and tails, or their whole bodies, especially when this affliction is the result of sorcery; it is restored too by the ash of a hedgehog mixed with honey, or by its burnt skin with liquid pitch. the head indeed of this animal, reduced to ash, by itself restores the hair even to scars. but for this treatment the patches must first be prepared by shaving with a razor. some too have preferred to use mustard in vinegar. all that will be said about the hedgehog will apply even more to the porcupine. hair is also prevented from falling out by the ash of a lizard that, in the way i have described, has been burnt with the root of a fresh-cut reed, which must be chopped up fine so that the two may be consumed together, an ointment being made by the admixture of myrtle-oil. all the same results are given more efficaciously by green lizards, and with even greater benefit if there are added salt, bear's grease, and crushed onion. some thoroughly boil ten green lizards at a time in ten sextarii of old oil, being content with one application a month. vipers' skins reduced to ashes very quickly restore hair lost through mange, as does also an application of fresh hens' dung. a raven's egg, beaten up in a copper vessel and applied to the head after shaving it, imparts a black colour to the hair, but until it dries oil must be kept in the mouth lest the teeth too turn black at the same time; the application too must be made in the shade, and not washed off before three days have passed. some use a raven's blood and brains added to dark wine; others thoroughly boil the raven itself and store it away at bed time in a vessel of lead. some apply to patches of mange spanish fly pounded with liquid pitch, first preparing the skin with soda - the application is caustic, and care must be taken not to cause deep sores - and prescribe that afterwards to the sores so formed be applied the heads, gall, and dung of mice with hellebore and pepper. 