if a person has been bitten by a mad dog, as protection from hydrophobia is given by an application to the wound of ash from the burnt head of a dog. now all reduction to ash (that i may describe it once for all) should be carried out in the following way: a new earthen vessel is covered all over with clay and so put into a furnace. the same method is also good when the ash is to be taken in drink. some have prescribed as a cure eating a dog's head. others too have used as an amulet a worm from a dead dog, or placed in a cloth under the cup the sexual fluid of a bitch, or have rubbed into the wound the ash from the hair under the tail of the mad dog itself. dogs run away from one who carries a dog's heart, and indeed do not hark if a dog's tongue is placed in the shoe under the big toe, or at those who carry the severed tail of a weasel which has afterwards been set free. under the tongue of a mad dog is a slimy saliva, which given in drink prevents hydrophobia, but much the most useful remedy is the liver of the dog that bit in his madness to be eaten raw, if that can be done, if it cannot, cooked in any way, or a broth must be made from the boiled flesh. there is a little worm on the tongue of dogs which the greeks call lytta (madness), and if this is taken away when they are baby puppies they neither go mad nor lose their appetite. it is also carried three times round fire and given to those bitten by a mad dog to prevent their going mad. the brains of poultry are an antidote, but to swallow them gives protection for that year only. they say that it is also efficacious to apply to the wound a cock's comb pounded up, or goose grease with honey. the flesh of dogs that have gone mad is also preserved in salt to be used for the same purposes given in food. puppies too of the same sex as the bitten patient are immediately drowned and their livers swallowed raw. an application in vinegar of poultry dung, if it is red, is also of advantage, or the ash of a shrewmouse's tail (but the mutilated animal must be set free alive), an application in vinegar of a bit of earth from a swallow's nest, of the chicks of a swallow reduced to ash, or the skin or cast slough of snakes, pounded in wine with a male crab; for by it even when put away by itself in chests and cupboards they kill moths. so great is the virulence of this plague that even the urine of a mad dog does harm if trodden on, especially to those who are suffering from sores. a remedy is an application of horse dung sprinkled with vinegar and warmed in a fig. less surprised at all this will be one who remembers that 'a dog will bite a stone thrown at him' has become a proverb to describe quarrelsomeness. it is said that he who voids his own urine on that of a dog will suffer numbness in his loins. the lizard called seps by some and chalcis by others, if taken in wine is a cure for its own bites. 