the gall of the eagle, which, as i have said, tests its chicks for gazing at the sun, makes, when mixed with attic honey, an ointment for film on the eyes, dimness of vision, and cataract. there is the same property also in vulture's gall with leek juice and a little honey, likewise in the gall of a cock, especially of a white cock, diluted with water and used for white specks, white ulcers, and cataract. the dung of poultry also, provided that it is red, is prescribed as an ointment for night blindness. the gall of a hen also, and in particular the fat, is recommended for pustules on the pupils, but of course hens are not fattened specially for this purpose. it is a wonderful help, combined with the stones schistos and haematites, for the coats of the eye when torn. the dung also of hens, provided it is white, is kept in old oil and horn boxes for white ulcers on the pupil; while on the subject i must mention the tradition that peacocks swallow back their own dung, begrudging men its benefits. a hawk boiled down in rose oil is thought to make a very efficacious liniment for all eye complaints, as is its dung reduced to ash and added to attic honey. a kite's liver too is recommended, and also pigeons' dung, applied in vinegar for fistulas, similarly for white ulcers and for sears, goose's gall and duck's blood for bruised eyes, provided that afterwards they are treated with wool grease and honey; partridge gall can be used with an equal weight of honey, but by itself for clear vision. it is on the supposed authority of hippocrates that the further instruction is given to keep this gall in a silver box. partridge eggs boiled down with honey in a bronze vessel cure ulcers on the eyes and opaqueness of the lens. the blood of pigeons, doves, turtle doves, or partridges, makes an excellent application for blood-shot eyes. among pigeons, male birds are supposed to have the more efficacious blood, and a vein under a wing is cut for this purpose, because its natural heat makes it more useful. over the application should be placed a plaster boiled in honey and greasy wool boiled in oil or wine. night blindness is cured by the blood of the same birds and by the liver of sheep, as i said a when speaking of goats, with greater benefit if the sheep are tawny. with a decoction also of the liver it is recommended to bathe the eyes and to apply the marrow to those that are painful or swollen. we are assured that the eyes of the horned owl, reduced to ash and mixed with a salve, improves the vision. white ulcers are made better by the dung of a turtle dove, by snails reduced to ash, and by the dung of the cenchris, a bird considered by the greeks to be a species of hawk. white specks are cured by all the above remedies applied with honey. the honey most beneficial for the eyes is that in which bees have died. he who has eaten the chick of a stork, it is said, will not suffer from ophthalmia for years on end, likewise he who carries about the head of a python. its fat with honey and old oil is said to disperse incipient dimness. the chicks of swallows are blinded by the full moon, and when their sight is restored their heads are burnt and the ash used with honey to improve the vision and for pains, ophthalmia, and blows. lizards too are employed in several ways for eye remedies. some shut up a green lizard in new earthenware, and with them the pebbles called cinaedia, which are used as amulets for swellings on the groin, mark them with nine marks and take away one daily; on the ninth day they set the lizard free, but keep the pebbles for pains in the eyes. others put earth under a green lizard after blinding it, and shut it in a glass vessel with rings of solid iron or gold. when they can see through the glass that the lizard has recovered its sight, they let it out, and use the rings for ophthalmia; others use the ash of the head instead of antimony for scabrous eyes. some burn the green lizard with a long neck that is found in sandy places, and use it as ointment for incipient fluxes, as well as for opaqueness of the lens. they also say that when a weasel's eyes have been gouged out with a pointed tool, the sight. is restored, and they use the animal as they used the lizards and rings, saying also that a serpent's right eye worn as au amulet, is good for eye fluxes, if the serpent is set free alive. the ash of a spotted lizard's head makes with antimony an excellent remedy for continually streaming eyes. the web of a fly-spider, particularly its very lair, is said to be a marvellous cure for fluxes if laid in a plaster across the forehead from temple to temple; but it must be collected and applied by a boy before puberty, who waits three days before showing himself to the patient needing cure, during which days the latter must not touch the earth with bare feet. white ulcers also are said to be removed by the white spider with very long and very thin legs, which is pounded in old oil and used as ointment. the spider too, whose very coarse web is generally found in rafters, is said to cure fluxes if worn in cloth as an amulet. the green beetle has the property of sharpening the sight of those who gaze at it, and so the carvers of jewels gaze on one to rest their eves. 