opaqueness of the eye-lens is cured, say the magi, by the brain of a seven-day-old puppy, the probe being inserted into the right side of the eye to treat the right eye and into the left side to treat the left eye; or by the fresh gall of the axio, a kind of owl whose feathers twitch like ears. apollonius of pitane preferred to treat cataract with honey and dog's gall rather than using hyena's, as he did also to treat white eye ulcers. the heads and tails of mice, reduced to ash and made into an ointment with honey, restore, they say, clearness of vision; much better the ash of a dormouse or wild mouse, or the brain of an eagle or the gall with attic honey. the ash and fat of the shrewmouse, beaten up with antimony, is very good for watery eyes — what antimony is i shall say when i speak of metals — the ash of the weasel for cataract, likewise of the lizard, or the brain of the swallow. pounded snails applied to the forehead relieve eye fluxes, either by themselves or with fine flour or with frankincense; so applied they are also good for sunstroke. to burn them alive also, and to use as ointment the ash with cretan honey is very good for dimness of vision. for the eyes of draught animals the slough cast in spring by the asp makes with asp fat an ointment that improves their vision. to burn a viper alive in new earthenware, with addition of fennel juice up to one cyathus, and of one grain of frankincense, makes an ointment very good for cataract and dimness of vision; this prescription is called eckeon. an eye salve is also made by letting a viper rot in a jar, and pounding with saffron the grubs that breed in it. a viper is also burned in a jar with salt, to lick which gives clearness of vision, and is a tonic to the stomach and to the whole body. this salt is also given to sheep to keep them in health, and is an ingredient of an antidote to snakebite. some use vipers as food. they prescribe that, first of all, as soon as the viper has been killed, salt should be placed in its mouth until it melts; then at both ends a length of four fingers is cut off and the intestines taken out; the rest they thoroughly boil in water, oil, salt and dill, and either eat at once, or mix in bread so that it can be used several times. in addition to what has been said above, the broth removes lice from any part of the body, as well as itching from the surface of the skin. even by itself, the ash of a viper's head shows results; as ointment for the eyes it is very effective, and the same is true of viper's fat. i would not confidently recommend what is prescribed about a viper's gall, because, as i have pointed out in the appropriate place a serpent's poison is nothing but gall. the fat of snakes mixed with bronze rust heals ruptured parts of the eyes, and rubbing with their skin, or slough, cast in spring, gives clear vision. the gall of the boa afro is recommended for white ulcers, cataract, and dimness, and its fat similarly for clear vision. 