the ears are cleaned by sheep's gall with honey; pain is relieved by drops of bitch's milk; hardness of hearing by her fat with wormwood and old oil, also by goose grease. some add the juice of onion and a like measure of garlic. they also use without addition ants' eggs, for this creature also has its use in medicine, and it is well known that bears when sick cure themselves by eating these eggs. the fat of geese and of all birds is prepared all the veins are taken out, and in a new earthenware pan with a lid it is melted in the sun with boiling hot water underneath, strained through linen strainers and set aside in new earthenware in a cool place; if honey is added the fat is less likely to go rancid. the ash of mice, either added to honey or boiled with rose oil, if dropped into the ears relieves pain. if some creature has crept into the ear, the sovereign remedy is mouse gall diluted with vinegar; if it is water that has got in, goose grease with the juice of an onion. a dormouse, skinned and the intestines taken out, is thoroughly boiled in honey in a new vessel. physicians prefer it to be boiled down to one-third in nard, and so stored away, and then when needed poured into the ear in a warmed strigil. it is well ascertained that desperate ear complaints are cured by this remedy, or if a decoction of earthworms and goose grease is injected. the red worms also that are taken off trees, if pounded with oil, make excellent treatment for ulcerated or ruptured ears. preserved lizards, with salt put into their mouths as they hang suspended, heal bruised ears that are suffering from a blow, most efficaciously those covered with spots of the colour of iron rust and also marked by streaks along the tail. the millipede, by some called centipede or multipede, is one of the earth worms; it is hairy, with many feet, moving sinuously its back as it crawls, drawing itself together when touched, and called by the greeks oaiscos or jabs. it is said to be a good cure for ear pains if boiled down in pomegranate rind or leek juice. they add also rose oil, and pour it into the ear that is not painful. the kind however that does not move sinuously its back the greeks call seps or scolopendra; it is smaller and very venomous. the snails that are edible are applied with myrrh or powdered frankincense, and the small, broad snails are made into an ointment with honey for fractured ears. the slough of serpents, burnt in a heated pot, is mixed with rose oil and dropped into the ears, efficacious indeed for all affections, but especially for offensive smell; if pus is present, vinegar is used, and it is better if there be added gall of goat, ox, or turtle — the slough, as some think, loses power if older than a year, or if soaked with rain — the gore of a spider on wool with rose oil, by itself, or with saffron; a cricket dug out with its earth and applied. great efficacy is attributed to this creature by nigidius, greater still by the magi, just because it walks backwards, bores into the earth, and chirrups at night. they hunt it with an ant tied to a hair and put into the cricket's hole, first blowing the dust away lest it bury itself, and so when the ant has embraced it the cricket is pulled out. the lining of the crop of poultry, usually thrown away, if dried and pounded in wine, is poured warm into suppurating ears, likewise hens' fat and a kind of greasy substance coming from the black beetle if its head is pulled off. this, pounded with rose oil, is said to be wonderfully good for the ears, but the wool on which it is inserted must be taken out after a short time, for this grease very quickly turns into something alive, forming a grub. some write that a dose of two or three of these beetles, boiled down in oil, make very good treatment for the ears, and that when these are bruised crushed beetles are placed in them in a piece of linen. this insect is one of the things that arouse disgust, but because nature and the research of the ancients are so wonderful i must go fully into the matter here. they have made several classes of them: first the soft kind which, boiled down in oil, they found to make a good ointment for warts. the second kind they called mylvecos, because they are found commonly about mills. the instances they quoted include musaeus the boxer, who cured leprous sores by this kind rubbed on without their heads. a third kind, one with a loathsome smell and a sharp-pronged tail-end, they say will cure, if applied with pisselaion for twenty-one days, ulcers otherwise incurable, scrofulous sores and superficial abscesses; and without legs and wings bruises, contusions, even malignant sores, itch scab, and boils. even to hear these remedies mentioned makes me feel sick; but, heaven help us! diodorus says that he had given these beetles with resin and honey even in cases of jaundice and orthopnoea. so much power has the art of medicine to prescribe any medicament it may wish. the kindliest among physicians have thought that the ash of burnt black beetles should be kept for the purposes mentioned in a horn box, or that crushed they should be given in enemas to sufferers from orthopnoea or catarrh. it is a known fact at any rate that an application brings away things embedded in the flesh. the most suitable honey for the ears also is that in which bees have died. parotid swellings are reduced by pigeon's dung either by itself or with barley meal or oatmeal, by the brain or liver of an owl, poured with oil into the ear on the side of the swelling, by a multipede with a third part of resin used as ointment, and by crickets, used as ointment or as amulets. medicine for the remaining kinds of disease from the same animals or from animals of the same kind, i shall speak of in the next book. 