and this cato died in the 605th year of the city and the 85th of his own life, so that nobody can think that he lacked opportunities in public life, or length of years in private life, to gather experiences. what then? are we to believe that he condemned a very useful thing? no, by heaven! for he adds the medical treatment by which he prolonged his own life and that of his wife to an advanced age, by these very remedies in fact with which i am now dealing, and he claims to have a notebook of recipes, by the aid of which he treated his son, servants, and household; these i rearrange under the diseases for which they are used. it was not medicine that our forefathers condemned, but the medical profession, chiefly because they refused to pay fees to profiteers in order to save their lives. for this reason even when aesculapius was brought as a god to rome, they are said to have built his temple outside the city, and on another occasion upon an island, and when, a long time too after cato, they banished greeks from italy, to have expressly included physicians. i will magnify yet further their wisdom. medicine alone of the greek arts we serious romans have not yet practised; in spite of its great profits only a very few of our citizens have touched upon it, and even these were at once deserters to the greeks; nay, if medical treatises are written in a language other than greek they have no prestige even among unlearned men ignorant of greek, and if any should understand them they have less faith in what concerns their own health. accordingly, heaven knows, the medical profession is the only one in which anybody professing to be a physician is at once trusted, although nowhere else is an untruth more dangerous. we pay however no attention to the danger, so great for each of us is the seductive sweetness of wishful thinking. besides this, there is no law to punish criminal ignorance, no instance of retribution. physicians acquire their knowledge from our dangers, making experiments at the cost of our lives. only a physician can commit homicide with complete impunity. nay, the victim, not the criminal, is abused; his is the blame for want of self-control, and it is actually the dead who are brought to account. panels of judges are tested according to custom by the censorial powers of the emperor; their examination invades the privacy of our homes; to give a verdict on a petty sum a man is summoned from cadiz and the pillars of hercules; indeed, before the penalty of exile can be inflicted forty-five selected men are given power to vote on it; yet on the judge himself what manner of men sit in consultation to murder him out of hand! we deserve it all, so long as not one of us cares to know what is necessary for his own good health. we walk with the feet of others, we recognise our acquaintances with the eyes of others, rely on others' memory to make our salutations, and put into the hands of others our very lives; the precious things of nature, which support life, we have quite lost. we have nothing else of our own save our luxuries. i will not abandon cato exposed by me to the hatred of so vainglorious a profession, or yet that senate which shared his views, and that without seizing, as one might expect, any chances of accusation against the profession. for what has been a more fertile source of poisonings? whence more conspiracies against wills? yes, and through it too adulteries occur even in our imperial homes, that of eudemus with livia, wife of drusus caesar, and that of valens with the royal lady with whom his name is linked. we may grant that the blame for such sins may lie with persons, not with the medical profession; cato, i believe, had no more fears for rome about these matters than he had about the presence in rome of royal ladies. let me not even bring charges against their avarice, their greedy bargains made with those whose fate lies in the balance, the prices charged for anodynes, the earnest-money paid for death, or their mysterious instructions, that a cataract should be moved away and not pulled off. the result is that the brightest side of the picture is the vast number of marauders; for it is not shame but the competition of rivals that brings down fees. it is well known that the charmis aforesaid exchanged one sick provincial for 200,000 sesterces by a bargain with alcon the wound-surgeon; that charmis was condemned and fined by the emperor claudius the sum of 1,000,000 sesterces, yet as an exile in gaul and on his return from banishment he amassed a like sum within a few years. let the blame for this sort of thing also be laid on persons. i must not accuse even the dregs of that mob or its ignorance: the irresponsibility of the physicians themselves, with their out-of-the-way use of hot water in sickness, their strict fasts for patients, who when in a fainting condition are stuffed with food several times a day, their thousand ways moreover of changing their minds, their orders to the kitchen, and their compound ointments; for none of life's seductive attractions have they refrained from touching. i am inclined to believe that our ancestors were displeased with imports from abroad and with the fixing of prices by foreigners, but not that cato foresaw these things when he condemned the profession. there is an elaborate mixture called theriace, which is compounded of countless ingredients, although nature has given as many remedies, anyone of which would be enough by itself. the mithridatic antidote is composed of fifty-four ingredients, no two of them having the same weight, while of some is prescribed one sixtieth part of one denarius. which of the gods, in the name of truth, fixed these absurd proportions? no human brain could have been sharp enough. it is plainly a showy parade of the art, and a colossal boast of science. and not even the physicians know their facts; i have discovered that instead of indian cinnabar there is commonly added to medicines, through a confusion of names, red lead, which, as i shall point out when i discuss pigments, is a poison. these things however concern the health of individuals; but those other practices, which cato feared and foresaw, much less harmful and less regarded, such as the heads of that profession themselves admit about themselves, those, i say, have ruined the morals of the empire, i mean the practices to which we submit when in health — wrestlers' ointments, as though they were intended to treat ill health, broiling baths, by which they have persuaded us that food is cooked in our bodies, so that everybody leaves them the weaker for the treatment, and the most submissive are carried out to be buried, the draughts taken fasting, vomitings followed by further heavy potations, effeminate depilations produced by their resins, and even the pubes of women exposed to public view. it is certainly true that our degeneracy, due to medicine more than to anything else, proves daily that cato was a genuine prophet and oracle when he stated that it is enough to dip into the works of greek brains without making a close study of them. thus much must be said in defence of that senate and those 600 years of the roman state, against a profession where the treacherous conditions allow good men to give authority to the worst, and at the same time against the stupid convictions of certain people who consider nothing beneficial unless it is costly. for i feel sure that some will be disgusted at the animals i shall treat of, although virgil did not disdain to speak quite unnecessarily of ants and weevils, and of: - 