dalmatia: scardona, situate upon the river, at a distance of twelve miles from the sea, forms the boundary of liburnia and the beginning of dalmatia. next to this place comes the ancient country of the autariatares and the fortress of tariona, the promontory of diomedes, or, as others call it, the peninsula of hyllis, 100 miles in circuit. then comes tragurium, a place with the rights of roman citizens, and celebrated for its marble, sicum, a place to which claudius, the emperor lately deified, sent a colony of his veterans, and salona, a colony, situate 112 miles from iadera. to this place resort for legal purposes, having the laws dispensed according to their divisions into decuries or tithings, the dalmatae, forming 342 decuries, the deurici 22, the ditiones 239, the mazaei 269, and the sardiates 52. in this region are burnum, andetrium, and tribulium, fortresses ennobled by the battles of the roman people. to the same jurisdiction also belong the issaei, the colentini, the separi, and the epetini, nations inhabiting the islands. after these come the fortresses of peguntium and of rataneum, with the colony of narona, the seat of the third jurisdiction, distant from salona eighty-two miles, and situate upon a river of the same name, at a distance of twenty miles from the sea. m. varro states that eighty-nine states used to resort thither, but now nearly the only ones that are known are the cerauni with 24 decuries, the daorizi with 17, the daesitiates with 103, the docleatae with 33, the deretini with 14, the deremistae with 30, the dindari with 33, the glinditiones with 44, the melcomani with 24, the naresii with 102, the scirtarii with 72, the siculotae with 24, and the vardaei, once the scourges of italy, with no more than 20 decuries. in addition to these, this district was possessed by the ozuaei, the partheni, the hemasini, the arthitae, and the armistae. the colony of epidaurum is distant from the river naron 100 miles. after epidaurum come the following towns, with the rights of roman citizens: — rhizinium, acruvium, butua, olcinium, formerly called colchinium, having been founded by the colchians; the river drilo, and, upon it, scodra, a town with the rights of roman citizens, situate at a distance of eighteen miles from the sea; besides in former times many greek towns and once powerful states, of which all remembrance is fast fading away. for in this region there were formerly the labeatae, the enderini, the sasaei, the grabaei, properly called illyrii, the taulantii, and the pyrei. the promontory of nymphaion on the sea-coast still retains its name; and there is lissum, a town enjoying the rights of roman citizens, at a distance from epidamnum of 100 miles. 