in quinsy very speedy relief is afforded by goose gall with elaterium and honey, by the brain of an owl, and by the ash of a swallow taken in hot water. the last prescription is on the authority of the poet ovid. but more efficacious for all ailments for which swallows are prescribed are the young of wild swallows, which are recognised by the shape of their nests, but by far the most efficacious are the young of sand martins, for so are called the swallows that build their nests in holes on river banks. many hold that a young swallow of any kind should be eaten to banish the fear of quinsy for a whole year. they wring their necks, burn them blood and all in a vessel, and give the ash with bread or in drink. some add also to the prescription an equal quantity of weasel ash. these preparations are given daily in drink for scrofula and for epilepsy. preserved in salt also swallows are taken for quinsy in drachma doses, for which complaint their nest also, taken in drink, is said to be a cure. it is thought that an application of millipedes is very efficacious for quinsy; some think that twenty, beaten up in a hemina of hydromel, should be given through a reed, because if the teeth are touched the draught is thought to be useless. they also tell us that a mouse, well boiled with vervain, makes a broth that is a remedy, as does a thong of dog leather wrapped three times round the neck, or dove's dung thoroughly mixed with wine and oil. for neck-sinews and opisthotonus a twig of agnus castus taken from the nest of a kite and worn as an amulet, is said to help, for ulcerated scrofula a weasel's blood, or the weasel itself boiled down in wine, but it is not applied to sores that have been lanced. they say also that eating weasel in food has the same effect, or the animal burned over twigs and the ash mixed with axle grease. a green lizard is attached as an amulet; after thirty days the weasel should be changed for another. some keep a weasel's heart in a small silver vessel for scrofula in woman or man. an ointment is made of snails pounded with their shells, especially those that cling to shrubs, or there is applied the ash of asps with bull suet, snake's fat mixed with oil, or an ointment of snake's ash in oil or with wax. to eat also the middle part of a snake after cutting off either end is good for scrofula, as is to take in drink the ash of this middle burnt in new earthenware, with much greater benefit if the snakes have been killed between two wheel-ruts. they recommend also the application of a cricket dug up with its earth, also the application of dove's dung by itself, or with barley meal or oatmeal in vinegar, or of mole ash with honey. some make an ointment of a mole's liver crushed between the hands, and do not wash it off for three days. they also assure us that the right foot of the animal is a remedy for scrofula. others cut off the head, pound it with the earth of a mole-hill, work into lozenges in a pewter box, and use for all swellings, for what are called apostemata, and for affections of the neck; during the treatment the eating of pork is forbidden. there are earth beetles like ticks that are called 'bulls' - a name given because of their little horns - and by some 'earth lice.' these too throw up earth that is applied to scrofulous and similar sores, and also to gouty parts, not being washed off for three days. the efficacy of this treatment lasts for a year. to these creatures are assigned all the properties i have mentioned when speaking of crickets. some also use for this purpose the earth thrown up by ants, others tie as an amulet as many earth worms as there are sores, which dry up as the worms shrivel. others about the time of the dog-star cut off, as i have said, the ends of a viper, then burn the middle part and give a three-finger pinch of the ash to be taken in drink for thrice seven days, treating scrofulous sores in this way; some however do so by tying round them a linen thread by which a viper has been suspended by the neck until it died. they also use millipedes with a fourth part of terebinth resin, a medicament which they recommend for the treatment of all apostemata. 