for complaints of the anus very efficacious are wool grease — some add pompholyx and rose oil — dog's head reduced to ash, a serpent's slough in vinegar, if there are chaps, the ash of white dog's-dung with rose oil — it is said to have been a discovery of aesculapius, removing warts also very efficaciously — ash of mouse dung, fat of a swan, fat of a boa. prolapsus there is reduced by an application of snail juice extracted by pricks. chafings are relieved by the ash of a field mouse with honey, the gall of a hedgehog with the brain of a bat and bitch's milk, by goose grease with goose brain, alum and wool grease, and by pigeon dung with honey; specific for condylomata is a spider rubbed on the place when the head and feet have been removed; to prevent the smart from acrid juices, apply goose grease with punic wax, white lead, rose oil, and swan fat. this fat is said also to cure haemorrhoids. they say that beneficial for sciatica are raw snails, pounded with aminnean wine and pepper and taken in drink, a green lizard taken in food, but with feet, bowels and head removed, also so treated a spotted lizard with the addition of three oboli of black poppy for ruptures and sprains, sheep's gall with woman's milk. itching eruptions and warts on the privates are treated with the gravy from the roasted lung of a ram, other genital affections by the ash, applied with water, of raw, even unwashed, ram's wool, by the suet from the cad of a sheep, especially that of the kidneys, mixed with salt and the ash of pumice, by greasy wool in cold water, by the burnt flesh of sheep in water, by the ash of a she-mule's hoofs, by the tooth of a horse, ground to powder and dusted on the parts, and complaints of the testicles by the bones of a horse's head ground to powder without the flesh. if either testicle hangs down, we are told that a remedy is found in applying the slime of snails. foul and running ulcers on these parts are relieved by the fresh ashes of a dog's head, by the small broad kind of snail beaten up in vinegar, by the slough of a snake or its ash in vinegar, by honey in which bees have died mixed with resin, by the shell-less kind of snail, which i have said a breeds in africa, beaten up with powdered frankincense and white of eggs; the application is removed on the thirtieth day, and some add a bulb instead of frankincense. hydrocele, they tell us, is wonderfully benefited by the spotted lizard: head, feet, and bowels are removed, and the rest of the body is roasted — frequent doses are given in food — in food too for incontinence of urine they prescribe dog fat with split alum in doses the size of a bean, african snails burnt with their flesh and shell, the ash being taken in drink, three roasted geese tongues taken in food. sponsor for this treatment is anaxilaus. but superficial abscesses are opened by mutton suet and roasted salt; they are dispersed by mouse dung mixed with powdered frankincense and sandarach, by ash of a lizard or the lizard itself, split and applied, also by multipedes pounded and mixed with one third part of terebinth resin — some add also red ochre of sinope — by crushed snails by themselves, or by the ash of empty snail-shells mixed with wax. power to disperse is possessed by pigeon's dung, applied by itself or with barley meal or with oatmeal. cantharides mixed with lime remove superficial abscesses as well as the lancet; swelling of the groin is relieved by an application of small snails with honey. 