without doubt magic arose in persia with zoroaster. on this our authorities are agreed, but whether he was the only one of that name, or whether there was also another afterwards, is not clear. eudoxus, who wished magic to be acknowledged as the noblest and most useful of the schools of philosophy, declared that this zoroaster lived six thousand years before plato's death, and aristotle agrees with him. hermippus, a most studious writer about every aspect of magic, and an exponent of two million verses composed by zoroaster, added summaries too to his rolls, and gave agonaces as the teacher by whom he said that he had been instructed, assigning to the man himself a date five thousand years before the trojan war. what especially is surprising is the survival, through so long a period, of the craft and its tradition; treatises are wanting, and besides there is no line of distinguished or continuous successors to keep alive their memory. for how few know anything, even by hearsay, of those who alone have left their names but without other memorial - apusorus and zaratus of media, marmarus and arabantiphocus of babylon, or tarmoendas of assyria? the most surprising thing, however, is the complete silence of homer about magic in his poem on the trojan war, and yet so much of his work in the wanderings of ulysses is so occupied with it that it alone forms the backbone of the whole work, if indeed they put a magical interpretation upon the proteus episode in homer and the songs of the sirens, and especially upon the episode of circe and of the calling up of the dead from hades, of which magic is the sole theme. and in later times nobody has explained how ever it reached telmesus, a city given up to superstition, or when it passed over to the thessalian matrons, whose surname a was long proverbial in our part of the world, although magic was a craft repugnant to the thessalian people, who were content, at any rate in the trojan period, with the medicines of chiron, and with the war god as the only wielder of the thunderbolt? i am indeed surprised that the people over whom achilles once ruled had a reputation for magic so lasting that actually menander, a man with an unrivalled gift for sound literary taste, gave the name 'thessala' to his comedy, which deals fully with the tricks of the women for calling down the moon. i would believe that orpheus was the first to carry the craft to his near neighbours, and that his superstition grew from medicine, if the whole of thrace, the home of orpheus, had not been untainted by magic. the first man, so far as i can discover, to write a still-extant treatise on magic was osthanes, who accompanied the persian king xerxes in his invasion of greece, and sowed what i may call the seeds of this monstrous craft, infecting the whole world by the way at every stage of their travels. a little before osthanes, the more careful inquirers place another zoroaster, a native of proconnesus. one thing is certain; it was this osthanes who chiefly roused among the greek peoples not so much an eager appetite for his science as a sheer mania. and yet i notice that of old, in fact almost always, the highest literary distinction and renown have been sought from that science. certainly pythagoras, empedocles, democritus and plato went overseas to learn it, going into exile rather than on a journey, taught it openly on their return, and considered it one of their most treasured secrets. democritus expounded apollobex the copt and dardanus the phoenician, entering the latter's tomb to obtain his works and basing his own on their doctrines. that these were accepted by any human beings and transmitted by memory is the most extraordinary phenomenon in history; so utterly are they lacking in credibility and decency that those who like the other works of democritus deny that the magical books are his. but it is all to no purpose, for it is certain that democritus especially instilled into men's minds the sweets of magic. another extraordinary thing is that both these arts, medicine i mean and magic, flourished together, democritus expounding magic in the same age as hippocrates expounded medicine, about the time of the peloponnesian war, which was waged in greece from the three-hundredth year of our city. there is yet another branch of magic, derived from moses, jannes [an egyptian magician], lotapes [iotape/yahweh], and the jews, but living many thousand years after zoroaster. so much more recent is the branch in cyprus. in the time too of alexander the great, no slight addition was made to the influence of the profession by a second osthanes, who, honoured by his attendance on alexander, travelled certainly without the slightest doubt all over the world. 