to prevent varicose veins the legs of children are rubbed with lizard's blood, but both gout patient and rubber must be fasting. gouty pains are soothed by ocsypum with woman's milk and white lead, by the dung of sheep that they pass liquid, by lungs of sheep, by ram's gall with ram's suet, by mice split and laid on the parts, by blood of a weasel applied with plantain and the ash of a weasel burnt alive with vinegar and rose oil — the remedy should be applied with a feather even a if wax and oil are made ingredients — by dog's gall, which must not be touched by hand but applied with a feather, by dung of hens, by ash of earthworms with honey, taken off on the third day. some prefer to apply the worms in water, others prefer to rub the feet first with rose oil and then to apply without water an acetabulum of worms with three cyathi of honey. snails of the broad kind taken in drink are said to banish pains of the feet and joints; the dose is two pounded in wine. they are also applied with juice of the plant helxine; some are content to beat them up in vinegar. salt, burnt with a viper in a new jar and taken frequently, frees they say from gout, adding that it is also beneficial to rub the feet with viper fat. they assure us also that the kite is a remedy; it is dried, pounded, and a three-finger pinch taken in water, or the feet are rubbed with its blood. to the feet is also applied the blood of pigeons a with nettles, or their feathers may be used when they are just sprouting, beaten up with nettles. moreover their dung is applied to painful joints, also the ash of a weasel or of snails, and with starch or tragacanth. bruised joints are treated very effectively with spider's web; some prefer to use the ash of it, or else that of pigeon's dung with pearl barley and white wine. for dislocations a sovereign remedy is mutton suet with ash of woman's hair. for chilblains too is applied mutton suet with alum, or the ash of a dog's head or of mouse dung. but if they are clean, ulcers are brought to cicatrize by these with the addition of wax, or by the warm ash in oil of burnt dormice, also by that of field mice with honey, and by that of earthworms also with old oil and the snails that are found without shells. all sores of the feet are healed by the ash of those snails that have been burnt alive, by the ash of hens' dung, and ulcerations by the ash of pigeon's dung in oil. chafings caused by foot-wear are healed by the ash of an old shoe, by the lung of a lamb and of a ram; for whitlows is specific a horse's tooth ground to powder; chafings under the feet of man or beast are healed by applying a green lizard's blood, corns on the feet by applying the urine of a mule, male or female, with the mud made by it, by the dung of sheep, by the liver or blood of a green lizard laid on a piece of wool, by earthworms in oil, by the head of a spotted lizard with an equal quantity of agnus castus beaten up in oil, by pigeon's dung boiled down in vinegar; all kinds of warts are cured by fresh dog's urine applied with its mud, by the ash of dog's dung with wax, by the dung of sheep, by the application of fresh mouse-blood, or of a mouse itself torn asunder, by the gall of a hedgehog, by the head or blood of a lizard or the ash of the whole creature, by the slough of snakes, or by the dung of a hen with oil and soda. cantharides beaten up with taminian grapes eat away warts, but when corroded in this way they must be treated by the other remedies i have prescribed for the complete healing of ulcers. 