ulcers are healed by wool grease, barley ash, and copper rust, in equal parts; this is also equally efficacious for carcinomata and spreading sores. it cauterizes too the edges of ulcers, and levels out excrescences in the flesh; it also fills up hollows and forms scars. there is also great power to heal carcinomata in the ash of sheep's dung with soda added, or in the ash of a lamb's thigh bones, especially when ulcers refuse to cicatrize. there is great power too in the lungs, especially those of rams, which flatten out very efficaciously excrescences of flesh on ulcers; ewe dung too by itself, warmed under an earthen jar and kneaded, reduces swollen wounds, and cleans and heals fistulas and epinyctides. the greatest power, however, is in the ash of a dog's head, which cauterizes and thoroughly heals all excrescences as well as does spodium. these are cauterized too by mouse dung, and also by the ash of weasel's dung. indurations in deep-seated ulcers and carcinomata are penetrated by multipedes pounded and mixed with terebinth resin and earth of sinope. the same remedies are very useful for those ulcers that are threatened by worms. moreover, the various kinds of worms themselves have wonderful uses. the larvae that breed in wood heal all ulcers; and nomae too if burnt with an equal weight of anise and applied in oil. fresh wounds are united so well by earth worms that there is a general conviction that even severed sinews are by applying them made whole by the seventh day; accordingly it is thought that they should be preserved in honey. their ash with liquid pitch or symphytum and honey removes too-hard edges of ulcers. some dry them in the sun, use in vinegar to treat wounds, and do not take them off without an interval of two days. used in the same way the earth too off snails is beneficial, and snails taken out whole, beaten up, and applied, unite fresh wounds and arrest nomae. there is also an insect called by the greeks herpes, which is specific for all creeping ulcers. snails also are good for them, beaten up with their shells; with myrrh indeed and frankincense they are said to heal even severed sinews. the fat of a python also, dried in the sun, is of great benefit, as is a cock's brain for fresh wounds. by viper's salt taken in food we are told that ulcers become more amenable to treatment and heal more rapidly. indeed the physician antonius after operating on ulcers without success gave vipers as food to bring about complete cures with wonderful rapidity. the ash of the trixallis with honey removes hard edges on ulcers, as does ash of pigeon's dung with arsenic and honey; these also remove all that needs a cautery. the brain of a horned owl with goose grease is said to unite wounds wonderfully, as, with woman's milk, does the ash of a ram's thighs the ulcers called malignant, but the cloths must be first carefully washed, or the screech owl boiled in oil, with which when melted down are mixed ewe butter and honey. the lips of ulcers that are too hard are softened by bees that have died in honey, and elephantiasis by the blood and ash of a weasel. wounds and weals made by the scourge are removed by an application of fresh sheepskin. 