babies that are troubled with curdled milk have a preventative in lamb's rennet taken in water or if the trouble has occurred with milk already curdled it is dispersed by this rennet given in vinegar. for dentition the brain of a sheep is very beneficial. the inflammation of babies called siriasis is cured by the bones found in dog's dung worn as an amulet, and hernia in babies by bringing a green lizard to bite them when asleep. afterwards they fasten the lizard to a reed and hang it in smoke, and they say that as it dies the baby recovers. the slime of snails applied to the eyes of babies straightens the eyelashes and makes them grow. hernia is cured by the ash of snails applied for thirty days with frankincense in white of egg. there are found in the little horns of snails sandy grits; worn as an amulet these make dentition easy. the ash of snail shells mixed with wax checks procidence of the end of the bowel, but the ash should be mixed with the discharge that exudes when the snails are pricked. a viper's brain tied on with a piece of his skin helps dentition. the same effect have also the largest teeth of serpents. the dung of a raven attached with wool as an amulet cures babies' coughs. certain details can scarcely be included as serious items, but i must not omit them, since they have been put on record. as a remedy for hernia in babies they recommend a lizard; there should be taken a male, which can be recognised by its having one vent beneath the tail. the necessary ritual is: that it must bite the lesion through a gold or silver barrier; then it must be fastened in an unused cup and placed in smoke. incontinence of urine in babies is checked by giving in their food boiled mice. the tall, indented horns of the beetle, fastened to babies, serves as an amulet. in the head of the boa is said to be a little stone, which is spit out by it when in fear of violent death; they add that dentition is wonderfully aided if the creature's head is cut off unawares, the stone extracted and worn as an amulet. the brain too of the same creature they recommend to be worn for the same purpose, or the stone or little bone found on the back of a slug. a splendid help also is the brain of a ewe rubbed on the gums, as for the ears is goose grease put in them with juice of ocimum. on prickly plants are grubs which are rough and downy. these worn by babies as an amulet are said to effect an immediate recovery when part of their food sticks in the throat. 