the earth however itself guarantees water by white spots or by being green all over. for in black earth the springs are generally not permanent. potters clay always dashes hopes of water, and further well-digging ceases when it is observed that the earth's strata begin with black and go down in the order given above. water in clay is always sweet, but cooler in tufa. for tufa too is commended, for it makes water sweet and very light; acting as a strainer it keeps back any dirt. loam indicates scanty trickles with shine, gravel intermittent springs but of a good flavour, male loam or carbunculus-sand; continuous streams, steady and wholesome; red rock points to the certain presence of excellent water; the rocky bases of mountains, or flint, point to the same kind of water, with great coolness in addition. but as the diggers go deeper, the clods should prove continually moister, and the spades cut down more easily. when wells have been sunk deep, the well-diggers are killed if they meet with sulphurous or aluminous fumes. a test for this danger is to let down a lighted lamp and see if it goes out. if it does, vent-holes are sunk at the side of the well, on the right and on the left, to take off the oppressive gas. apart from these injurious substances, mere depth makes the air oppressive; it is dissipated by continuous fanning with linen cloths. when water has been reached, walls are built from the bottom no cement being used lest the springs be dammed up. some water, the source of which is not at a height, is cooler right from the beginning of spring - for it is made up of winter rain - some is cooler after the rising of the dog-star; in macedonia at pella are both kinds. for before the town there is a marsh stream that is cold at the beginning of summer; then in the higher parts of the town the water is very cold even in the height of summer. a similar phenomenon occurs in chios also, the relative position of harbour and town being the same. at athens, enneacrunos in a cloudy summer is cooler than the well in the garden of juppiter, while this latter is very cold during summer droughts. wells however generally run dry about arcturus, not in the actual summer, and all sink low during the four days of its rising. moreover many wells fail throughout the winter, as those around olynthus, the water returning first in the spring. in sicily indeed, in the region of messana and mylae, springs in winter dry up altogether, but in the actual summer overflow and form rivers. at apollonia in pontus a spring near the sea is flooded only in summer, and especially about the rising of the dog-star, but less so if the summer is colder than usual. certain lands become drier in rainy weather, as the region of narnia; marcus cicero included this in his marvels, saying that drought brings mud, and rain dust. 