the same method of treatment will also apply to sea water, which is used hot for pains in the sinews, for joining fractured bones, and for bruised bones; also for drying the body, in which treatment cold sea water is also employed. there are besides many other uses, the chief however being a sea voyage for those attacked by consumption, as i have said, and for haemoptysis, such as quite recently within our memory was taken by annaeus gallio after his consulship. egypt is not chosen for its own sake, but because of the length of the voyage. moreover the mere seasickness caused by rolling and pitching are good for very many ailments of the head, eyes, and chest, as well as for all complaints for which hellebore is given. sea water indeed by itself physicians think to be more efficacious for dispersing tumours, if with it a decoction is made of barley meal for parotid swellings. it is also an ingredient of plasters, especially white plasters and poultices. it is beneficially used too when poured over in frequent douches. it is also drunk, though not without harm to the stomach, for purging the body and for getting rid of black bile or clotted blood by vomit or stool. some have also given it to be drunk in quartan agues, in tenesmus, and for diseased joints, keeping it for this purpose, for age takes away its injurious qualities. some boil it; all draw it up out at sea, use it unspoiled by any addition of fresh water, and in using this remedy prefer that an emetic should precede the draught. then also they mix with the water vinegar or wine. those who have given it pure, recommend to eat afterwards radishes with oxymel to provoke further vomiting. sea water warmed is also injected as an enema. nothing is preferred to it for fomenting swollen testicles, or for bad chilblains before ulceration; similarly for itching, psoriasis, and the treatment of lichen. nits too and foul vermin on the head are treated with sea water. it also restores the natural colour to livid patches. in this treatment it is of very great advantage to foment with hot vinegar after the sea water. it is moreover known to be healing for poisonous stings, as of spiders and scorpions, and for persons wetted by the spittle of the asp, but for these purposes it is employed hot. steam from sea water and vinegar is beneficial for headaches. colic too and cholera are relieved by warm enemas of seawater. things warmed by it are harder to cool thoroughly. swollen breasts, the viscera, and emaciation, are rectified by sea baths, deafness and headache by the vapour of boiling sea water and vinegar. sea water removes very quickly rust from iron, heals too scab on sheep, and softens wool. 