i must not put off describing the character of soda, which is very similar to salt; a more careful account must be given because it is plain that the physicians who have written about it were ignorant of its character, and that nobody has given a more careful description than theophrastus. a little is formed in media in valleys that are white through drought; they call it halmyrax. it is also found in thrace near philippi, but in less quantities and contaminated with earth; it is called agrium. but soda from burnt oak-wood was never made in large quantities, and the method has long been altogether abandoned. alkaline water, however, is found in very many places, but the soda is not concentrated enough to solidify. at clitae in macedonia is found in abundance the best, called soda of chalestra, white and pure, very like salt. there is an alkaline lake there with a little spring of fresh water rising up in the centre. soda forms in it about the rising of the dog-star for nine days, ceases for nine days, comes to the top again and then ceases. this shows that it is the character of the soil that produces soda, since it has been discovered that, when it ceases, neither sunshine is of any help at all nor yet rain. another wonderful thing about the lake is that although the spring is always bubbling up it neither gets larger nor overflows. but if, on those days on which soda forms, has been rain, it makes the soda more salty, while north winds on those days, by stirring up the mud too vigorously, makes it inferior. this soda is natural, but in egypt it is made artificially, in much greater abundance but of inferior quality, for it is dark and stony. it is made in almost the same manner as is salt, except that they pour seawater into the salt-beds but the nile into the soda-beds. the latter as the nile rises become dry; as it falls they are moist with liquid soda for forty days on end, and not as in macedonia during fixed periods. if rain also has fallen, they add less river water, and gather at once the soda that has begun to solidify, lest it should melt back into the soda-bed. thus too oily matter forms among the soda, useful for itch-scab on animals. soda however, stored in heaps, lasts a long time. a wonder of lake ascanius and of certain springs around chalcis is that the surface water is sweet and drinkable but underneath is alkaline. of soda the best is the finest, and therefore froth of soda is superior, but for some purposes the impure is good, for example colouring purple cloths and all kinds of dyeing. soda is of great use in the making of glass, as will be described in its proper place. the soda-beds of egypt used to be confined to the regions around naucratis and memphis, the beds around memphis being inferior. for the soda becomes stone-like in heaps there, and many of the soda piles there are for the same reason quite rocky. from these they make vessels, and frequently by baking melted soda with sulphur. for the bodies too that they wish to embalm this is the soda they use. in this region are soda-beds from which red soda also is taken owing to the colour of the earth. foam of soda, which is very highly prized, the ancients said was formed only when dew had fallen on beds teeming with soda but not yet bringing it forth; accordingly, even if dew fell, soda did not form on beds in agitated action. others have thought that foam is produced by fermentation of the heaps. the last generation of physicians said that in asia was gathered aphronitrum oozing in soft caves — they are called colligae — and then dried in the sun. the best is thought to be lydian. the tests are that it should be the least heavy and the most friable, and of an almost purple colour. the last kind is imported in lozenges, but the egyptian in vessels lined with pitch, lest it melt. these vessels too are finished off by being dried in the sun. the tests of soda are that it should be very fine and as spongy and full of holes as possible. in egypt it is adulterated with lime, which is detected by the taste; for pure soda melts at once, but adulterated soda stings because of the lime, and gives out a strong odour. it is burnt in an earthen jar with a lid, lest it should crackle out; otherwise soda does not crackle in fire; it produces nothing and nourishes nothing, whereas in salt-pits grow plants, and in the sea so many animals and so much seaweed. but that the pungency of soda is greater is shown not only by this evidence but also by the fact that soda-beds at once consume shoes, but are otherwise healthful and good for clearness of vision. in the soda-beds nobody has ophthalmia; sores brought there heal very quickly, but those that form there heal slowly. soda and oil also make to sweat those who are rubbed with the mixture, which softens the flesh. they use chalestran soda for bread instead of salt, egyptian soda for radishes; it makes them more tender, but meats white and inferior and vegetables greener. in medicine soda warms, alleviates, stings, braces, dries, and clears away ulcers, and is useful for conditions where there must be withdrawal, dispersal, and gentle stinging and alleviation, as with pimples and blisters. some for this purpose set it on fire and put it out with a dry wine, and use it so prepared and ground in the bath without oil. excessive sweats are checked by soda with dried iris and the addition of green oil; it also improves scars on the eyes and roughness of the lids if applied with fig, or boiled down to one half in raisin wine, a preparation too which is used for white ulcers and inflamed swellings on the eyes. boiled down with raisin wine in a pomegranate rind, and applied with honey, it improves vision. soda is good for toothache if a mouthwash is made by adding pepper and wine. boiled down too with leek, and burnt to make a dentifrice, it restores the colour of blackening teeth. insects and nits on the head it kills if applied in oil with samian earth. dissolved in wine it is poured into purulent ears; wax in the same organ it eats away in vinegar; noises and singing it stops if added dry. applied in sunshine with vinegar and an equal weight of cimolian chalk it cures the white kinds of psoriasis. it brings to a head boils, either mixed with resin or with white raisins, the pips being ground up with them. with axle-grease it combats inflammation of the testicles, and also outbursts of phlegm on the whole body; it is applied with vinegar, resin being added, to dog-bites. this preparation is used for snake bites; for phagedaenic, creeping, or festering ulcers, with lime and vinegar; for dropsy it is pounded with figs and administered by the mouth and externally. griping pains too it allays if there is taken a drachma by weight boiled down with rue or dill or cummin. the pains of fatigue are removed by rubbing all over with soda, oil, and vinegar, while for chills and shivers it is of advantage to rub the hands and feet thoroughly with soda and oil. it also checks the itch of jaundice, especially when administered with vinegar while the patient is sweating. taken in vinegar and water soda is beneficial against the poisons of fungi; if a buprestris has been swallowed it is taken in water; it is also a good emetic. it is given in laser to those who have drunk bull's blood. ulcerations also on the face it heals with honey and cow's milk. it is applied to burns roasted until it turns black and crushed to powder. it is injected for pain in the and kidneys, or for rigors of the body, or for pains of the sinews. for paralysis of the tongue it is applied there with bread, and for asthma it is taken in barley gruel. chronic cough is cured by flower of soda with galbanum mixed with terebrinth resin, all equal in weight, but the piece to be swallowed must be of the size of a bean. soda, boiled and then combined with liquid pitch, is given to be swallowed by patients with quinsy. flower of soda with oil of cyprus is also soothing if applied in the sun for pains in the joints. jaundice also it alleviates taken in a draught of wine; this remedy relieves flatulence. it checks epistaxis if inhaled in the steam from boiling water. by soda mixed with alum is removed scurf, rank smell of the armpits by daily fomentation with soda and water, sores due to nose-running by soda mixed with wax — a mixture also good for the sinews — and it is injected for the coeliac affection. many have prescribed complete rubbing with soda and oil before the chills of fever come on, and so to use it for leprons sores and freckles; and they prescribe its use in the bath for gouty people. soda baths are good for consnmptives, and for the victims of opisthotonus and other forms of tetanus. salt and soda, when heated with sulphur, turn to stone. 