the course of my subject has brought me to the greatest of nature's works, and i am actually met by such an unsought and overwhelming proof of hidden power that inquiry should really be pursued no further, and nothing equal or similar can be found, nature surpassing herself, and that in numberless ways. for what is more violent than sea, winds, whirlwinds, and storms? by what greater skill of man has nature been aided in any part of herself than by mils and oars? let there be added to these the indescribable force of tidal ebb and flow, the whole sea being turned into a river. all these, however, although acting in the same direction, are checked by a single specimen of the sucking fish, a very small fish. bales may blow and storms may rage; this fish rules their fury, restrains their mighty strength, and brings vessels to a stop, a thing no cables can do, nor yet anchors of unmanageable weight that have been cast. it cheeks their attacks and tames the madness of the universe with no toil of its own, not by resistance, or in any way except by adhesion. this little creature suffices in the face of all these forces to prevent vessels from moving. but armoured fleets bear aloft on their decks a rampart of towers, so that fighting may like place even at sea as from the walls of a fortress. how futile a creature is man, seeing that those rams, armed for striking with bronze and iron, can be checked and held fast by a little fish six inches long! it is said that at the battle of actium the fish stopped the flagship of antonius, who was hastening to go round and encourage his men, until he changed his ship for another one, and so the fleet of caesar at once made a more violent attack. within our memory the fish stayed the ship of the emperor gaius as he was sailing back from astura to antium. as it turned out, the little fish also proved ominous, because very soon after that emperor's return to rome on this occasion he was stabbed by his own men. this delay caused no long surprise, for the reason was immediately discovered; of the whole fleet the quinquereme alone making no progress, men at once dived and swam round the ship to trace the cause. they found this fish sticking to the rudder and showed it to gaius, who was furious that it had been such a thing that was keeping him back and vetoing the obedience to himself of four hundred rowers. it was agreed that what astonished him in particular was how the fish had stopped him by sticking to the outside, yet when inside the ship it had not the same power. those who saw the fish then or afterwards say that it is like a large slug. i have given the views of the majority in my account of water creatures, where i discussed the fish, and i do not doubt all this kind of fish have the same power, since there is a famous and even divinely sanctioned example in the temple of the cnidian venus, where snails too, we are forced to believe, have the same potency. of the roman authorities some have given this fish the latin name of mora, and a marvel is told by some greeks, who have related, as i have said, that worn as an amulet it arrests miscarriage, and by reducing procidence of the uterus allows the foetus to reach maturity; others say that preserved in salt and worn as an amulet it delivers pregnant women, this being the reason why another name, odiaolytes, is given to it. however these things may be, would anybody after this instance of staying a ship's course entertain doubts about any power, force, and efficacy of nature, to be found in remedies from things that grow spontaneously? 