toothache is relieved by scraping the gums with the bones of the weever fish, or by the brain of a dogfish boiled down in oil and kept, so that the teeth may be washed with it once every year. to scrape the gums too with the ray of the stingray is very beneficial for toothache. this ray if pounded and applied with white hellebore brings out teeth without any distress. salted fish also, reduced to ash in an earthen vessel and mixed with powdered marble, is another remedy. old slices of tunny rinsed in a new vessel and then beaten up, are good for toothaches. equally good are said to be the backbones of any salted fish, burnt, pounded, and applied. a single frog is boiled down in one hemina of vinegar, so that the teeth may be rinsed with the juice, which should be held in the mouth. should the nasty taste be an objection, sallustius dionysius used to hang frogs by their hind legs so that the fluid from their mouths might drop into boiling vinegar, and that from several flogs. for stronger stomachs he prescribed the frogs themselves, to be eaten with their broth. it is thought that double teeth yield best to this treatment, when loose indeed the vinegar spoken of above is thought to make them firm. for the purpose some cut off the feet of two frogs and soak the bodies in a hemina of wine, and recommend loose teeth to be rinsed with the liquid. some tie whole frogs on the jaws as an amulet; others have boiled down ten frogs in three sextarii of vinegar to one third the volume, in order to strengthen loose teeth. furthermore they have boiled the hearts of 46 frogs under a copper vessel in one sextarius of old oil, to be poured into the ear on the side of the aching jaw. others have boiled the liver of a frog, beaten it up with honey, and placed it on the teeth. all the above prescriptions are more efficacious if the sea frog is used. if the teeth are decayed and foul, they recommend whale's flesh to be dried for a night in a furnace, and then the same amount of salt to be added and the whole to be used as a dentifrice. the enhydris is a snake so-called by the greeks and living in water. with four upper teeth of this creature they scrape the upper gums, when there is aching of the upper teeth, and with four lower teeth the lower gums when there is aching in the lower teeth. some are content to use the canine tooth only of these creatures. they also use the ash of crabs, but the ash of the murex makes a dentifrice. 