of all fish, river or sea, the fats, melted in the sun and mixed with honey, are very good for clearness of vision, and so is beaver oil and honey. the gall of the star-gazer heals scars, and removes superfluous flesh about the eyes. no other fish has a greater abundance of gall; this opinion, menander too expresses in his comedies. this fish is also called uranoscopos, from the eye which it has in its head. the gall of the coracinus too improves vision, and that of the red sea-scorpion with old oil and attic honey disperses incipient cataract; it should be applied as ointment three times, once every other day. the same treatment removes albugo from the eyes. a diet of mullet is said to dull the eyesight. though the sea-hare itself is poisonous, yet reduced to ash it prevents from growing again superfluous hair on the eyelids that has been plucked out. for this purpose the most useful specimens are the smallest; also small scallops, salted and pounded with cedar resin, frogs called diopetae or calamitae; their blood, with vine tear-gum, should be rubbed on the lids after plucking out the hair. swellings and redness of the eyes are soothed by an application of sepia bone with woman's milk, and by itself it is good for roughness of the lids. in this cure they turn up the lids, taking off the ointment after a little time, treat the part with rose-oil and soothe with a bread-poultice. the bone is also good treatment for night-blindness, if ground to powder and applied in vinegar. reduced to ash it brings away scales; with honey it heals scars on the eyes; with salt and cadmia, a drachma of each, it heals inflammatory swellings, and also albugo in cattle. they say that eyelids, if rubbed by its small bone, are healed. urchins in vinegar remove night rashes. the magi recommend the same to be burnt with vipers' skins and frogs, and the ash to be sprinkled into drinks; they assure us that clearer vision will result. ichthyocolla is the name of a fish that has a sticky skin; the same name is given to the glue of the fish; this disperses night rashes. some say that ichthyocolla is made from the belly and not from the skin, just as is bull glue. pontic ichthyocolla is popular, being white, free from veins and scales, and melting very quickly. it ought, however, to be cut up and soaked in water or vinegar for a night and a day, and then to be pounded by sea-pebbles, to make it melt more readily. they assure us that it is useful both for headache and for all tetanus. the right eye of a frog hung round the neck in a piece of undyed cloth cures ophthalmia in the right eye; the left eye similarly tied cures ophthalmia in the left. but if the frog's eyes are gouged out when the moon is in conjunction, and worn similarly by the patient, enclosed in an egg-shell, it will also cure albugo. the rest of the flesh, if applied, quickly takes away bruises. an amulet of crabs' eyes also, worn on the neck, are said to cure ophthalmia. there is a small frog, found living especially in reed-beds and grasses, deaf, without a croak, and green, which, if it by chance is swallowed, swells up the bellies of oxen. they say that the fluid of its body, scraped off with a spatula and applied to the eyes, improves vision. the flesh by itself is placed over painful eyes. some put together into a new earthen jar fifteen frogs, piercing them with rushes; to the fluid that thus exudes they add the gum of the white vine, and so treat eyelids; superfluous hairs are plucked out, and the mixture dropped with a needle into the holes made by the plucked-out hairs. meges used to make a depilatory for the eyelids by killing frogs in vinegar and letting them putrefy; for this purpose he used the many spotted frogs that breed in the autumn rains. the same effect is thought to be produced by leeches reduced to ash and applied in vinegar; they must be burnt in a new vessel. the same effects too by the dried liver of a tunny, in doses of four denarii added to cedar oil and applied to the hairs for nine months. 