lichens and leprous sores are removed by the fat of the seal, the ash of menae with three oboli of honey, the liver of the stingray boiled in oil, or the ash of the seahorse or dolphin applied with water. ulceration should be followed by treatment, which results in a scar. some roast dolphin fat a in an earthen jar until it flows like oil; this they use as ointment. the shell of murex or other shell-fish reduced to ash clears spots from the faces of women, remove wrinkles, and fill out the skin, if applied with honey for seven days, but on the eighth day there should be fomentation with white of egg. to the class murex belong the shell-fish called by the greeks coluthia, by others coryphia, equally conical but smaller and much more efficacious, and they also keep the breath sweet. fish-glue removes wrinkles and fills out the skin; prepared by boiling down in water for four hours and then kneading until liquid like honey. after being thus prepared it is stored away in a new vessel, and when used four drachmae of it, two of sulphur, two of alkanet, eight of litharge, are mixed, sprinkled with water, and pounded together. applied to the face this mixture is washed off after four hours. freckles too and the other facial affections are treated by the calcined bones of cuttlefish; they also remove excrescences of flesh and running sores. itch-scab is removed by the decoction of a frog in five heminae of seawater: the boiling should continue until the consistency is that of honey. in the sea is found a substance called alcyoneum, some think out of the nests of the alcyon and the ceyx, others out of clotted sea-foam, others from the slime of the sea or from what might be called its down. there are four kinds of it: the first is ash-coloured, compact, and of a pungent smell; the second is milder in smell, which is almost that of seaweed; the third is in shape like a whitish grub; the fourth is rather like pumice, resembling rotten sponge. the best is almost purple, and is also called milesian. the whiter alcyoneum is the less valuable it is. the property of alcyoneum is to ulcerate and to cleanse. when used it is parched, and applied without oil. with lupins and two oboli of sulphur it removes wonderfully well leprous sores, lichens, and freckles. it is also used for scars on the eyes. andreas used for leprous sores crabs reduced to ash and applied with oil, attalus the fresh fat of the tunny. 