recurrent fevers are cured by a dolphin's liver, taken before the paroxysms. seahorses are killed in rose-oil, to make ointment for those sick of chill fevers, and seahorses themselves are worn as an amulet by the patients. the little stones also that at a full moon are found in the head of the fish asellus, are tied on the patient in a linen cloth. quartans are cured by the longest tooth of the river fish phagrus, tied with a hair on the patient as an amulet, but the patient must not discern the person who attached it for five days; also by rubbing with the grease of frogs boiled in oil at a place where three roads meet, the flesh being first thrown away. some drown frogs in oil, attach secretly as an amulet, and rub the patient thoroughly with the oil. the heart of frogs attached as an amulet, and the oil in which their entrails have been boiled, relieve the chills of fevers. the best cure for quartans, however, is a frog, worn as an amulet with its claws taken off, or a bramble-toad, if its liver or heart is worn as an amulet in a piece of ash-coloured cloth. river-crabs, pounded in oil and water and thoroughly rubbed over the patient before the paroxysms, are beneficial in fevers; some add pepper also. others prescribe them for quartans boiled down to a quarter in wine, to be taken after leaving the bath; some, however, the left eye to be swallowed. the magi assure us that tertian fevers are driven away by crabs' eyes, attached as an amulet before sunrise to the patient, but the blinded crabs must be set free into water. the magi also teach that crabs' eyes, tied on with the flesh of a nightingale in deer skin, drive away sleep and cause watchfulness. for those sinking into lethargus they prescribe that the patient smell the rennet of the whale or that of the seal. others use as embrocation for lethargus the blood of a tortoise? it is also said that tertians are treated successfully by the vertebra of a perch worn as an amulet; quartans by fresh river snails taken as food. some preserve them in salt for this purpose, to administer them, beaten up, in a draught. 