the name for this class of mines is arrugiae; also cracks give way suddenly and crush the men who have been at work, so that it actually seems less venturesome to try to get pearls and purple-fishes out of the depth of the sea: so much more dangerous have we made the earth! consequently arches are left at frequent intervals to support the weight of the mountain above. in both kinds of mining masses of flint are encountered, which are burst asunder by means of fire and vinegar, though more often, as this method makes the tunnels suffocating through heat and smoke, they are broken to pieces with crushing-machines carrying 150 lbs. of iron, and the men carry the stuff out on their shoulders, working night and day, each man passing them on to the next man in the dark, while only those at the end of the line see daylight. if the bed of flint seems too long, the miner follows along the side of it and goes round it. and yet flint is considered to involve comparatively easy work, as there is a kind of earth consisting of a sort of potter's clay mixed with gravel, called gangadia, which it is almost impossible to overcome. they attack it with iron wedges and the hammer-machines mentioned above; and it is thought to be the hardest thing that exists, except greed for gold, which is the most stubborn of all things. when the work is completely finished, beginning with the last, they cut through, at the tops, the supports of the arched roofs. a crack gives warning of a crash, and the only person who notices it is the sentinel on a pinnacle of the mountain. he by shout and gesture gives the order for the workmen to be called out and himself at the same moment flies down from his pinnacle. the fractured mountain falls asunder in a wide gap, with a crash which it is impossible for human imagination to conceive, and likewise with an incredibly violent blast of air. the miners gaze as conquerors upon the collapse of nature. and nevertheless even now there is no gold so far, nor did they positively know there was any when they began to dig; the mere hope of obtaining their coveted object was a sufficient inducement for encountering such great dangers and expenses. 