in old days there was no number standing for more than 100,000, and accordingly even today we reckon by multiples of that number, using the expression times 'ten times one hundred thousand' or larger multiples. this was due to usury and to the introduction of coined money, and also on the same lines we still speak of money owed as 'somebody else's copper.' afterwards 'dives,' 'rich,' became a family surname, though it must be stated that the man who first received this name ran through his creditors' money and went bankrupt. afterwards marcus crassus, who was a member of the rich family, used to say that nobody was a wealthy man except one who could maintain a legion of troops on his yearly income. he owned landed property worth two hundred million sesterces, being the richest roman citizen after sulla. nor was he satisfied without getting possession of the whole of the parthians' gold as well; and although it is true he was the first to win lasting reputation for wealth — it is a pleasant task to stigmatize insatiable covetousness of that sort — we have known subsequently of many liberated slaves who have been wealthier, and three at the same time not long before our own days in the period of the emperor claudius, namely callistus, pallas and narcissus. and to omit these persons, as if they were still in sovereign power, there is gaius caecilius isidorus, the freedman of gaius caecilius who in the consulship of gaius asinius gallus and gaius marcius censorinus executed a will dated january 27 in which he declared that in spite of heavy losses in the civil war he nevertheless left 4116 slaves, 3600 pairs of oxen, 257,000 head of other cattle, and 60 million sesterces in cash, and he gave instructions for 1,100,000 to be spent on his funeral. but let them amass uncountable riches, yet what fraction will they be of the riches of the ptolemy who is recorded by varro, at the time when pompey was campaigning in the regions adjoining judea, to have maintained 6000 horse at his own charges, to have given a lavish feast to a thousand guests, with 1,000 gold goblets, which were changed at every course; and then what fraction would his own estate have been (for i am not speaking about kings) of that of the bithynian pythes, who presented the famous gold plane tree and vine to king darius, and gave a banquet to the forces of xerxes, that is 788,000 men, with a promise of five months' pay and corn on condition that one at least of his five children when drawn for service should be left to cheer his old age? also let anyone compare even pythes himself with king croesus! what madness it is (damn it all!), to covet a thing in our lifetime that has either fallen to the lot even of slaves or has reached no limit even in the desires of kings! 