as to the roman kings i find it hard to make a statement. the statue of romulus in the capitol has nothing, nor has any other king's statue excepting those of numa and servius tullius, and not even that of lucius brutus. i am especially surprised at this in the case of the tarquins, who came originally from greece, the country from which this fashion in rings came, although an iron ring is worn in sparta even at the present day. but of all, tarquinius priscus, it is well known, first presented his son with a golden amulet when while still of an age to wear the bordered robe he had killed an enemy in battle; and from that time on the custom of the amulet has continued as a distinction to be worn by the sons of those who have served in the cavalry, the sons of all others only wearing a leather strap. owing to this i am surprised that the statue of that tarquin has no ring. all the same, i notice that there is a difference of opinion even about the actual word for a ring. the greek name for it is derived from the word meaning a finger; with ourselves, in early days it was called 'ungulus,' but afterwards both our people and the greeks give it the name of 'symbolum.' for a long period indeed, it is quite clear, not even members of the roman senate had gold rings, inasmuch as rings were bestowed officially on men about to go as envoys to foreign nations, and on them only, the reason no doubt being that the most highly honoured foreigners were recognized in this way. nor was it the custom for any others to wear a gold ring than those on whom one had been officially bestowed for the reason stated; and customarily roman generals went in triumph without one, and although a tuscan crown of gold was held over the victor's head from behind, nevertheless he wore an iron ring on his finger when going in triumph, just the same as the slave holding the crown in front of himself. this was the way in which gaius marius celebrated his triumph over jugurtha, and it is recorded that he did not assume jan.1, a gold ring till his third tenure of the consulship. those moreover who had been given gold rings because they were going on an embassy only wore them in public, but in their homes wore iron rings; this is the reason why even now an iron ring and what is more a ring without any stone in it is sent a as a gift to a woman when betrothed. indeed i do not find that any rings were worn in the trojan period; at all events homer nowhere mentions them, although he shows that tablets used to be sent to and fro in place of letters, and that clothes and gold and silver vessels were stored away in chests and were tied up with signet-knots, not sealed with signet-rings. also he records the chiefs as casting lots about meeting a challenge from the enemy without using signet-rings; and he also says that the god of handicraft in the original period frequently made brooches and other articles of feminine finery like earrings — without mentioning finger-rings. and whoever first introduced them did so with hesitation, and put them on the left hand, which is generally hidden by the clothes, whereas it would have been shown off on the right hand if it had been an assured distinction. and if this might possibly have been thought to involve some interference with the use of the right hand, there is the proof of more modern custom; it would have also been more inconvenient to wear it on the left hand, which holds the shield. indeed it is also stated, by homer again, that men wore gold plaited in their hair and consequently i cannot say whether the use of gold originated from women. 