of boldness of design the examples are innumerable. we see enormously huge statues devised, what are called colossi, as large as towers. such is the apollo on the capitol, brought over by marcus lucullus from apollonia, a city of pontus, 45 ft. high, which cost 500 talents to make; or the jupiter which the emperor claudius dedicated in the campus martius, which is dwarfed by the proximity of the theatre of pompey; or the 60 ft. high statue at taranto made by lysippus. the remarkable thing in the case of the last is that though it can be moved by the hand, it is so nicely balanced, so it is said, that it is not dislodged from its place by any storms. this indeed, it is said, the artist himself provided against by erecting a column a short distance from it to shelter it on the side where it was most necessary to break the force of the wind. accordingly, because of its size, and the difficulty of moving it with great labour, fabius verrucosus left it alone when he transferred the heracles from that place to the capitol where it now stands. but calling for admiration before all others was the colossal statue of the sun at rhodes made by chares of lindus, the pupil of lysippus mentioned above. this statue was 105 ft. high; and, 66 years after its erection, was overthrown by an earthquake, but even lying on the ground it is a marvel. few people can make their arms meet round the thumb of the figure, and the fingers are larger than most statues; and where the limbs have been broken off enormous cavities yawn, while inside are seen great masses of rock with the weight of which the artist steadied it when he erected it. it is recorded that it took twelve years to complete and cost 300 talents, money realized from the engines of war belonging to king demetrius which he had abandoned when he got tired of the protracted siege of rhodes. there are a hundred other colossal statues in the same city, which though smaller than this one would have each of them brought fame to any place where it might have stood alone; and besides these there were five colossal statues of gods, made by bryaxis. 