great use is also made of verdigris. there are several ways of making it; it is scraped off the stone from which copper is smelted, or by drilling holes in white copper and hanging it up in casks over strong vinegar which is stopped with a lid; the verdigris is of much better quality if the same process is performed with scales of copper. some people put the actual vessels, made of white copper, into vinegar in earthenware jars, and nine days later scrape them. others cover the vessels with grape-skins and scrape them after the same interval, others sprinkle copper filings with vinegar and several times a day turn them over with spattles till the copper is completely dissolved. others prefer to grind copper filings mixed with vinegar in copper mortars. but the quickest result is obtained by adding to the vinegar shavings of coronet copper. rhodian verdigris is adulterated chiefly with pounded marble, though others use pumice-stone or gum. but the adulteration of verdigris that is the most difficult to detect is done with shoemakers' black, the other adulterations being detected by the teeth as they crackle when chewed. verdigris can be tested on a hot fire-shovel, as a specimen that is pure keeps its colour, but what is mixed with shoemakers' black turns red. it is also detected by means of papyrus previously steeped in an infusion of plant-gall, as this when smeared with genuine verdigris at once turns black. it can also be detected by the eye, as it has an evil green colour. but whether pure or adulterated, the best way is to wash it and when it is dry to burn it on a new pan and keep turning it over till it becomes glowing ashes; and afterwards it is crushed and put away in store. some people burn it in raw earthenware vessels till the earthenware is baked through; some mix in also some male frankincense. verdigris is washed in the same way as cadmea. its powerfulness is very well suited for eye-salves and its mordant action makes it able to produce watering at the eyes; but it is essential to wash it off with swabs and hot water till its bite ceases to be felt. 