deposits of iron are found almost everywhere, and they are formed even now in the italian island of elba, and there is very little difficulty in recognizing them as they are indicated by the actual colour of the earth. the method of melting out the veins is the same as in the case of copper. in cappadocia alone it is merely a question whether the presence of iron is to be credited to water or to earth, as that region supplies iron from the furnaces when the earth has been flooded by the river cerasus but not otherwise. there are numerous varieties of iron; the first difference depending on the kind of soil or of climate — some lands only yield a soft iron closely allied to lead, others a brittle and coppery kind that is specially to be avoided for the requirements of wheels and for nails, for which purpose the former quality is suitable; another variety of iron finds favour in short lengths and in nails for soldiers' boots; another variety experiences rust more quickly. all of these are called stricturae, 'edging ores,' a term not used in the case of other metals; it is, as assigned to these ores, derived from stringere aciem, 'to draw out a sharp edge.' there is also a great difference between smelting works, and a certain knurl of iron is smelted in them to give hardness to a blade, and by another process to giving solidity to anvils or the heads of hammers. but the chief difference depends on the water in which at intervals the red hot metal is plunged; the water in some districts is more serviceable than in others, and has made places famous for the celebrity of their iron, for instance bambola and tarragona in spain and como in italy, although there are no iron mines in those places. but of all varieties of iron the palm goes to the seric, sent us by the seres with their fabrics and skins. the second prize goes to parthian iron; and indeed no other kinds of iron are forged from pore metal, as all the rest have a softer alloy welded with them. in our part of the world, in some places the lode supplies this good quality, as for instance in the country of the norici, in other places it is due to the method of working, as at sulmona, and in others, as we have said, it is due to the water; inasmuch as for giving an edge there is a great difference between oil whetstones and water whetstones, and a finer edge is produced by oil. it is the custom to quench smaller iron forgings with oil, for fear that water might harden them and make them brittle. and it is remarkable that when a vein of ore is fused the iron becomes liquid like water and afterwards acquires a spongy and brittle texture. human blood takes its revenge from iron, as if iron has come into contact with it, it becomes the more quickly liable to rust. 