the painting of portraits, used to transmit through the ages extremely correct likenesses of persons, has entirely gone out. bronze shields are now set up as monuments with a design in silver, with a dim outline of men's figures; heads of statues are exchanged for others about which before now actually sarcastic epigrams have been current: so universally is a display of material preferred to a recognizable likeness of one's own self. and in the midst of all this, people tapestry the walls of their picture-galleries with old pictures, and they prize likenesses of strangers, while as for themselves they imagine that the honour only consists in the price, for their heir to break up the statue and haul it out of the house with a noose. consequently nobody's likeness lives and they leave behind them portraits that represent their money, not themselves. the same people decorate even their own anointing-rooms with portraits of athletes of the wrestling-ring, and display all round their bedrooms and carry about with them likenesses of epicurus; they offer sacrifices on his birthday, and keep his festival, which they call the eikas on the 20th day of every month - these of all people, whose desire it is not to be known even when alive! that is exactly how things are: indolence has destroyed the arts, and since our minds cannot be portrayed, our bodily features are also neglected. in the halls of our ancestors it was otherwise; portraits were the objects displayed to be looked at, not statues by foreign artists, nor bronzes nor marbles, but wax models of faces were set out each on a separate sideboard, to furnish likenesses to be carded in procession at a funeral in the clan, and always when some member of it passed away the entire company of his house that had ever existed was present. the pedigrees too were traced in a spread of lines running near the several painted portraits. the archive-rooms were kept filled with books of records and with written memorials of official careers. outside the houses and round the doorways there were other presentations of those mighty spirits, with spoils taken from the enemy fastened to them, which even one who bought the house was not permitted to unfasten, and the mansions eternally celebrated a triumph even though they changed their masters. this acted as a mighty incentive, when every day the very walls reproached an unwarlike owner with intruding on the triumphs of another! there is extant an indignant speech by the pleader messala protesting against the insertion among the likenesses of his family of a bust not belonging to them but to the family of the laevini. similar reason extracted from old messala the volumes he composed 'on families,' because when passing through the hall of scipio pomponianus he had observed the salvittones that was their former surname - in consequence of an act of adoption by will creeping into others' preserves, to the discredit of the scipios called africanus. but the messala family must excuse me if i say that even to lay a false claim to the portraits of famous men showed some love for their virtues, and was much more honourable than to entail by one's conduct that nobody should seek to obtain one's own portraits! 