parrhasius also, a native of ephesus contributed much to painting, he was the first to give proportions to painting and the first to give vivacity to the expression of the countenance, elegance of the hair and beauty of the mouth; indeed it is admitted by artists that he won the palm in the drawing of outlines. this in painting is the high-water mark of refinement; to paint bulk and the surface within the outlines, though no doubt a great achievement, is one in which many have won distinction, but to give the contour of the figures, and make a satisfactory boundary where the painting within finishes, is rarely attained in successful artistry. for the contour ought to round itself off and so terminate as to suggest the presence of other parts behind it also, and disclose even what it hides. this is the distinction conceded to parrhasius by antigonus and xenocrates who have written on the art of painting, and they do not merely admit it but actually advertise it. and there are many other pen-sketches a still extant among his panels and parchments, from which it is said that artists derive profit. nevertheless he seems to fall below his own level in giving expression to the surface of the body inside the outline. his picture of the people of athens also shows ingenuity in treating the subject, since he displayed them as fickle, choleric, unjust and variable, but also placable and merciful and compassionate, boastful and ...., lofty and humble, fierce and timid — and all these at the same time. he also painted a theseus which was once in the capitol at rome, and a naval commander in a cuirass, and in a single picture now at rhodes figures of meleager, heracles and perseus. this last picture has been three times struck by lightning at rhodes without being effaced, a circumstance which in itself enhances the wonder felt for it. he also painted a high priest of cybele, a picture for which the emperor tiberius conceived an affection and kept it shut up in his bedchamber, the price at which it was valued according to deculo being 6,000,000 sesterces. he also painted a thracian nurse with an infant in her arms, a philiscus, and a father liber or dionysus attended by virtue, and two children in which the carefree simplicity of childhood is clearly displayed, and also a priest attended by boy with incense-box and chaplet. there are also two very famous pictures by him, a runner in the race in full armour who actually seems to sweat with his efforts, and the other a runner in full armour taking off his arms, so lifelike that he can be perceived to be panting for breath. his aeneas, castor and pollux (polydeuces), all in the same picture, are also highly praised, and likewise his group of telephus with achilles, agamemnon and odysseus. parrhasius was a prolific artist, but one who enjoyed the glory of his art with unparalleled arrogance, for he actually adopted certain surnames, calling himself the 'bon viveur,' and in some other verses 'prince of painters,' who had brought the art to perfection, and above all saying he was sprung from the lineage of apollo and that his picture of heracles at lindos presented the hero as he had often appeared to him in his dreams. consequently when defeated by timanthes at samos by a large majority of votes, the subject of the pictures being ajax and the award of the arms, he used to declare in the name of his hero that he was indignant at having been defeated a second time by an unworthy opponent. he also painted some smaller pictures of an immodest nature, taking his recreation in this sort of wanton amusement. 