the gates of art having been now thrown open by apollodorus they were entered by zeuxis of heraclea in the 4th year of the 95th olympiad, who led forward the already not unadventurous paintbrush — for this is what we are still speaking of — to great glory. some writers erroneously place zeuxis in the 89th olympiad, when demophilus of himera and neseus of thasos must have been his contemporaries, as of one of them, it is uncertain which, he was a pupil. of zeuxis, apollodorus above recorded wrote an epigram in a line of poetry to the effect that 'zeuxis robbed his masters of their art and carried it off with him.' also he acquired such great wealth that he advertised it at olympia by displaying his own name embroidered in gold lettering on the checked pattern of his robes. afterwards he set about giving away his works as presents, saying that it was impossible for them to be sold at any price adequate to their value: for instance he presented his alcmena to the city of akragas and his pan to archelaus. he also did a penelope in which the picture seems to portray morality, and an athlete, in the latter case being so pleased with his own work that he wrote below it a line of verse which has hence become famous, to the effect that it would be easier for someone to carp at him than to copy him. his zeus seated on a throne with the gods standing by in attendance is also a magnificent work, and so is the infant heracles throttling two snakes in the presence of his mother alcmena, looking on in alarm, and of amphitryon. nevertheless zeuxis is criticized for making the heads and joints of his figures too large in proportion, albeit he was so scrupulously careful that when he was going to produce a picture for the city of akragas to dedicate at the public cost in the temple of lacinian hera he held an inspection of maidens of the place paraded naked and chose five, for the purpose of reproducing in the picture the most admirable points in the form of each. he also painted monochromes in white. his contemporaries and rivals were timanthes, androcydes, eupompus and parrhasius. this last, it is recorded, entered into a competition with zeuxis, who produced a picture of grapes so successfully represented that birds flew up to the stage-buildings; whereupon parrhasius himself produced such a realistic picture of a curtain that zeuxis, proud of the verdict of the birds, requested that the curtain should now be drawn and the picture displayed; and when he realized his mistake, with a modesty that did him honour he yielded up the prize, saying that whereas he had deceived birds parrhasius had deceived him, an artist. it is said that zeuxis also subsequently painted a child carrying grapes, and when birds flew to the fruit with the same frankness as before he strode up to the picture in anger with it and said, i have painted the grapes better than the child, as if i had made a success of that as well, the birds would inevitably have been afraid of it. he also executed works in clay, the only works of art that were left at ambracia when fulvius nobilior removed the statues of the muses from that place to rome. there is at rome a helena by zeuxis in the porticoes of philippus, and a marsyas bound, in the shrine of concord. 