he also painted portraits so absolutely lifelike that, incredible as it sounds, the grammarian apio has left it on record that one of those persons called 'physiognomists,' who prophesy people's future by their countenance, pronounced from their portraits either the year of the subjects' deaths hereafter or the number of years they had already lived. apelles had been on bad terms with ptolemy in alexander's retinue. when this ptolemy was king of egypt, apelles on a voyage had been driven by a violent storm into alexandria. his rivals maliciously suborned the king's jester to convey to him an invitation to dinner, to which he came. ptolemy was very indignant, and paraded his hospitality-stewards for apelles to say which of them had given him the invitation. apelles picked up a piece of extinguished charcoal from the hearth and drew a likeness on the wall, the king recognizing the features of the jester as soon as he began the sketch. he also painted a portrait of king antigonus who was blind in one eye, and devised an original method of concealing the defect, for he did the likeness in 'three-quarter,' so that the feature that was lacking in the subject might be thought instead to be absent in the picture, and he only showed the part of the face which he was able to display as unmutilated. among his works there are also pictures of persons at the point of death. but it is not easy to say which of his productions are of the highest rank. his aphrodite emerging from the sea was dedicated by his late lamented majesty augustus in the shrine of his father caesar; it is known as the anadyomene; this like other works is eclipsed yet made famous by the greek verses which sing its praises; the lower part of the picture having become damaged nobody could be found to restore it, but the actual injury contributed to the glory of the artist. this picture however suffered from age and rot, and nero when emperor substituted another for it, a work by dorotheus. apelles had also begun on another aphrodite at cos, which was to surpass even his famous earlier one; but death grudged him the work when only partly finished, nor could anybody be found to carry on the task, in conformity with the outlines of the sketches prepared. he also painted alexander the great holding a thunderbolt, in the temple of artemis at ephesus, for a fee of twenty talents in gold. the fingers have the appearance of projecting from the surface and the thunderbolt seems to stand out from the picture — readers must remember that all these effects were produced by four colours; the artist received the price of this picture in gold coin measured by weighty not counted. he also painted a procession of the magabyzus, the priest of artemis of ephesus, a clitus with horse hastening into battle; and an armour-bearer handing someone a helmet at his command. how many times he painted alexander and philip it would be superfluous to recount. his habron at samos is much admired, as is his menander, king of caria, at rhodes, likewise his antaeus, and at alexandria his gorgosthenes the tragic actor, and at rome his castor and pollux with victory and alexander the great, and also his figure of ware with the hands tied behind, with alexander riding in triumph in his chariot. both of these pictures his late lamented majesty augustus with restrained good taste had dedicated in the most frequented parts of his forum; the emperor claudius however thought it more advisable to cut out the face of alexander from both works and substitute portraits of augustus. the heracles with face averted in the temple of diana is also believed to be by his hand — so drawn that the picture more truly displays heracles' face than merely suggests it to the imagination — a very difficult achievement. he also painted a nude hero, a picture with which he challenged nature herself. there is, or was, a picture of a horse by him, painted in a competition, by which he carried his appeal for judgement from mankind to the dumb quadrupeds; for perceiving that his rivals were getting the better of him by intrigue, he had some horses brought and showed them their pictures one by one; and the horses only began to neigh when they saw the horse painted by apelles; and this always happened subsequently, showing it to be a sound. test of artistic skill. he also did a neoptolemus on horseback fighting against the persians, an archelaus with his wife and daughter, and an antigonus with a breastplate marching with his horse at his side. connoisseurs put at the head of all his works the portrait of the same king seated on horseback, and his artemis in the midst of a band of maidens offering a sacrifice, a work by which he may be thought to have surpassed homer's verses describing the same subject. he even painted things that cannot be represented in pictures — thunder, lightning and thunderbolts, the pictures known respectively under the greek titles of bronte, astrape and ceraunobolia. 