it is recorded also that pamphilus, the teacher of apelles, not only painted in encaustic but also taught it to pausias of sikyon, the first artist who became famous in this style. pausias was the son of bryetes, and started as his father's pupil. he himself also did some wall-painting with the brush at thespiae, when some old paintings by polygnotus were being restored, and he was deemed to come off very second best in comparison with the original artist, having entered into competition in what was not really his line. pausias also first introduced the painting of panelled ceilings, and it was not customary before him to decorate arched roofs in this way. he used to paint miniatures, and especially children. his rivals explained this practice as being due to the slow pace of his work in painting; and consequently to give his work also the reputation of speed he finished a picture in a single day, a picture of a boy which was called in greek hemeresios, meaning one-day boy. in his youth he fell in love with a fellow-townswoman named glycera, who invented chaplets of flowers, and by imitating her in rivalry he advanced the art of encaustic painting so as to reproduce an extremely numerous variety of flowers. finally he painted a portrait of the woman herself, seated and wearing a wreath, which is one of the very finest of pictures; it is called in greek stephanoplocos, girl making wreaths, or by others stephanopolis, girl selling wreaths, because glycera had supported her poverty by that trade. a copy (in greek apographoa) of this picture was bought by lucius lucullus at athens for two talents; it had been made by dionysius at athens. but pausias also did large pictures, for instance the sacrifice of oxen which formerly was to be seen in pompey's portico. he first invented a method of painting which has afterwards been copied by many people but equalled by no one; the chief point was that although he wanted to show the long body of an ox he painted the animal facing the spectator and not standing sideways, and its great size is fully conveyed. next, whereas all painters ordinarily execute in light colour the parts they wish to appear prominent and in dark those they wish to keep less obvious, this artist has made the whole ox of a black colour and has given substance to the shadow from the shadow itself, with quite remarkable skill that shows the shapes standing out on a level surface and a uniform solidity on a broken ground. pausias also passed his life at sikyon, which was for a long period a native place of painting. but all the pictures there had to be sold to meet a debt of the community, and were removed from the ownership of the state to rome by scaurus as aedile. 