let this be what we say about bricks. among the other kinds of earth the one with the most remarkable properties is sulphur, which exercises a great power over a great many other substances. sulphur occurs in the aeolian islands between sicily and italy, which we have said are volcanic, but the most famous is on the island of melos. it is also found in italy, in the territory of naples and campania, on the hills called the leucogaei. it is there dug out of mineshafts and dressed with fire. there are four kinds: live sulphur, the greek name for which means 'untouched by fire,' which alone forms as a solid mass - for all the other sorts consist of liquid and are prepared by boiling in oil; live sulphur is dug up, and it is translucent and of a green colour; it is the only one of all the kinds that is employed by doctors. the second kind is called 'clod-sulphur,' and is commonly found only in fullers' workshops. the third kind also is only employed for one purpose, for smoking woollens from beneath, as it bestows whiteness and softness; this sort is called egula. the fourth kind is specially used for making lamp-wicks. for the rest, sulphur is so potent that when put on the fire it detects epilepsy by its smell. anaxilaus even made a sport with it by putting some in a cup of wine and placing a hot coal underneath and handing it round at dinner-parties, when by its reflection it threw on their faces a dreadful pallor as though they were dead. its property is calorific and concoctive, but it also disperses abscesses on the body, and consequently is used as an ingredient in plasters and poultices for such cases. it is also remarkably beneficial for the kidneys and loins if in cases of pain it is applied to them with grease. in combination with turpentine it also removes lichenous growths on the face and leprosy; so it is called harpax, owing to the speed with which it has to be applied, which is caused by the need for immediate removal. used as an electuary it is good for cases of asthma, and also purulent expectoration after coughing and as a remedy for the sting of scorpions. live sulphur mixed with soda and pounded in vinegar and used as a liniment removes cutaneous eruptions, and also eggs of lice, and in combination with vinegar mixed with realgar it is useful on the eyelids. sulphur also has a place in religious ceremonies, for the purpose of purifying houses by fumigation. its potency is also perceptible in hot springs of water, and no other substance is more easily ignited, showing that it contains a powerful abundance of fire. thunderbolts and lightning also have a smell of sulphur, and their actual light has a sulphurous quality. 