one kind of solid alum which is called in greek schiston, 'splittable,' splits into a sort of filament of a whitish colour, owing to which some people have preferred to give it in greek the name of trichitis, 'hairy alum.' this is produced from the same ore as copper, known as copperstone, a sort of sweat from that mineral, coagulated into foam. this kind of alum has less drying effect and serves less to arrest the detrimental humours of the body, but it is extremely beneficial as an ear-wash, or as a liniment also for ulcers of the mouth and for the teeth, and if it is retained in the mouth with saliva; or it forms a suitable ingredient in medicines for the eyes and for the genital organs of either sex. it is roasted in crucibles until it has quite lost its liquidity. there is another alum of a less active kind, called in greek strongyle, 'round alum.' of this also there are two varieties, the fungous which dissolves easily in any liquid and which is rejected as entirely worthless, and a better kind which is porous and pierced with small holes like a sponge and of a round formation, nearer white in colour, possessing a certain quality of unctuousness, free from grit, friable, and not apt to cause a black stain. this is roasted by itself on clean hot coals till it is reduced to ash. the best a of all kinds is that called melos alum, after the island of that name, as we said; no other kind has a greater power of acting as an astringent, giving a black stain and hardening, and none other has a closer consistency. it removes granulations of the eyes, and is still more efficacious in arresting defluxions when calcined, and in that state also it is applied to itchings on the body. taken as a draft or applied externally it also arrests haemorrhage. it is applied in vinegar to parts from which the hair has been removed and changes into soft down the hair that grows in its place. the chief property of all kinds of alum is their astringent effect, which gives it its name in greek. this makes them extremely suitable for eye troubles, and effective in arresting haemorrhage. mixed with lard it checks the spread of putrid ulcers — so applied it also dries ulcers in infants and eruptions in cases of dropsy — and, mixed with pomegranate juice, it checks ear troubles and malformations of the nails and hardening of scars, and flesh growing over the nails, and chilblains. calcined with vinegar or gallnuts to an equal weight it heals gangrenous ulcers, and, if mixed with cabbage juice, pruritus, or if with twice the quantity of salt, serpiginous eruptions, and if thoroughly mixed with water, it kills eggs of lice and other insects that infest the hair. used in the same way it is also good for burns, and mixed with watery fluid from vegetable pitch for scurf on the body. it is also used as an injection for dysentery, and taken in the mouth it reduces swellings of the uvula and tonsils. it must be understood that for all the purposes which we have mentioned in the case of the other kinds the alum imported from melos is more efficacious. it has been indicated how important it is for the other requirements of life in giving a finish to hides and woollens. 