near to the nature of sulphur is also that of bitumen. in some places it is a slime and others an earth, the slime being emitted, as we have said, from the lake of judea and the earth being found in the neighbourhood of the seaside town of sidon in syria. both of these varieties get thickened and solidify into a dense consistency. but there is also a liquid sort of bitumen, for instance that of zacynthus and the kind imported from babylon; at the latter place indeed it also occurs with a white colour. the bitumen from apollonia also is liquid, and all of these varieties are called by the greeks pissasphalt, from its likeness to vegetable-pitch and bitumen. there is also an unctuous bitumen, of the consistency of oil, found in sicily, in a spring at akragas, the stream from which is tainted by it. the inhabitants collect it on tufts of reeds, as it very quickly adheres to them, and they use it instead of oil for burning in lamps, and also as a cure for scab in beasts of burden. some authorities also include among the varieties of bitumen naphtha about which we spoke in book 2, but its burning property and liability to ignition is far removed from any practical use. the test of bitumen is that it should be extremely brilliant, and that it should be massive, with an oppressive smell; when quite black, its brilliance is moderate, as it is commonly adulterated with vegetable pitch. its medical effect is that of sulphur, as it is astringent, dispersive, contractive, and agglutinating. ignited it drives away snakes by us smell. babylonian bitumen is said to be serviceable for cataract and film in the eye, and also for leprosy lichen and itch. it is also used as a liniment for gout; while all varieties of it are used to fold back eyelashes that get in the way of sight, and also to cure toothache, when smeared on with soda. taken as a draught with wine it alleviates an inveterate cough and shortness of breath; and it is also given in the same way in cases of dysentery, and arrests diarrhoea. drunk however with vinegar it dissolves and brings away coagulated blood. it reduces pains in the loins and also in the joints, and applied with barley-meal it makes a special kind of plaster that bears its name. it stops a flow of blood, closes up wounds, and unites severed muscles. it is employed also for quartan fevers, the dose being a dram of bitumen and an equal weight of wild mint pounded up with a sixth of a dram of myrrh. burnt bitumen detects cases of epilepsy, and mixed with wine and beaver-oil its scent dissipates suffocations of the womb; its smoke when applied from beneath relieves prolapsus of the womb; and drunk in wine it hastens menstruation. among other uses of it, it is applied as a coating to copper and bronze vessels to make them fireproof. 