for there are few places for which a characteristic marble is not found to exist. even so, the most famous kinds have already been mentioned, along with the peoples whose names they bear, in the course of our circuit of the world. not all of them occur in quarries, but many are found scattered also beneath the earth's surface, some indeed being very valuable, like the green lacedemonian, which is brighter than any other marble, or the augustean and, more recently, the tiberian, which were found in egypt for the first time during the principates of augustus and act — a tiberius respectively! from serpentine, the markings of which resemble snakes — hence its name — these stones differ in that their markings are grouped differently. those of the augustean curl over like waves so as to form coils, while the tiberian has scattered greyish-white spots which are not rolled into coils. another difference is that only quite small columns made of serpentine are to be found. it has two varieties: one is soft and white, the other hard and dark. when worn as amulets, both are said to relieve headaches and snakebites. some authorities recommend the white variety as an amulet to be worn by sufferers from delirium or a coma. but as an antidote to snakebites some praise particularly the variety of serpentine known as 'tephrias' from its ashen colour. another stone, named from its place of origin, is the memphis stone, which is like a gem. the method of using this is to grind it to powder and to smear it mixed with vinegar on places which need to be cauterized or lanced; thus the body is numbed and feels no severe pain. in egypt too there is red porphyry, of which a variety mottled with white dots is known as 'leptopsephos.' the quarries supply masses of any size to be cut away. statues of this stone were brought from egypt to the emperor claudius in rome by his official agent vitrasius pollio, an innovation that did not meet with much approval. no one at least has since followed his example. the egyptians also discovered in ethiopia what is called 'basanites,' a stone which in colour and hardness resembles iron: hence the name they have given it. no large specimen of this stone has ever been found than that dedicated by the emperor vespasian in the temple of peace, the subject of which is the nile, with sixteen of the river-god's children playing around him, these denoting the number of cubits reached by the river in flood at its highest desirable level. not unlike this, we are told, is the block in the shine of serapis at thebes chosen for a statue of what is supposed to be memnon; and this is said to creak every day at dawn as soon as the sun's rays reach it. 