monoliths of this granite were made by the kings, to some extent in rivalry with one another. they called them obelisks and dedicated them to the sun-god. an obelisk is a symbolic representation of the sun's rays, and this is the meaning of the egyptian word for it. [tekhen/sunbeam/obelisk] the first of all the kings to undertake such a task was mesphres [menes? ], who ruled at heliopolis, the city of the sun, and was commanded to do so in a dream. this very fact is inscribed on the obelisk; for those carvings and symbols that we see are egyptian letters. later, other kings also cut obelisks. sesothes set up four of them in the city just mentioned, these being 48 cubits in height, while rameses, who ruled at the time of the capture of troy, erected one of 140 cubits. rameses also erected another at the exit from the precinct where the palace of mnevis once stood, and this is 120 cubits high, but abnormally thick, each side measuring 11 cubits. the completion of this work is said to have required 120,000 men. when the obelisk was about to be erected, the king feared that the scaffolding would not be strong enough for the weight, and in order to force an even greater danger upon the attention of the workmen, he himself tied his son to the pinnacle, intending that the stone should share the benefit of his deliverance at the hands of the labourers. this work was so greatly admired that when cambyses was storming the city and the conflagration had reached the base of the obelisk, he ordered the fires to be put out, thus showing his respect for the mighty block when he had felt none for the city itself. there are also two other obelisks here, one set up by zmarres, and the other by phius: a both lack inscriptions and are 48 cubits in height. at alexandria ptolemy philadelphus erected one of 80 cubits. this had been hewn uninscribed by king neethebis, and it proved to be a greater achievement to carry it down the river and erect it than to have quarried it. according to some authorities, it was carried downstream by the engineer satyrus on a raft; but according to callixenus it was conveyed by phoenix, who by digging a canal brought the waters of the nile right up to the place where the obelisk lay. two very broad ships were loaded with cubes of the same granite as that of the obelisk, each cube measuring one foot, until calculations showed that the total weight of the blocks was double that of the obelisk, since their total cubic capacity was twice as great. in this way, the ships were able to come beneath the obelisk, which was suspended by its ends from both banks of the canal. then the blocks were unloaded and the ships, riding high, took the weight of the obelisk. it was erected on six stone baulks from the same quarries, and the deviser of the scheme received 50 talents for his services. the obelisk was once in the arsinoeum, having been placed there by the king to whom we previously referred as a tribute to his affection for his wife and sister arsinoe. from there, because it was in the way of the dockyards, it was moved to the market-place by a certain maximus, a governor of egypt, who cut off the point, intending to add a gilt pinnacle in its place, a plan which he later abandoned. there are two other obelisks at alexandria in the precinct of the temple of caesar near the harbour. these were cut by king mesphres and measure 42 cubits. 