asinius pollio, being an ardent enthusiast, was accordingly anxious for his collection to attract sightseers. in it are the centaurs carrying nymphs by arcesilas, the muses of helicon by cleomenes, the oceanus and jupiter by heniochus, the nymphs of the appian water by stephanus, the double busts of hermes and eros by tauriscus (not the well-known worker in metal and ivory, but a native of tralles), the jupiter patron of strangers by papylus, the pupil of praxiteles, and a composition by apollonius and tauriscus which was brought from rhodes, namely zethus and amphion, and then dirce and the bull with its rope, all carved from the same block of stone. these two artists caused a dispute as to their parentage, declaring that their putative father was menecrates and their real father artemidorus. in the same galleries there is a father liber by eutychides which is warmly praised, and close by the portico of octavia an apollo by philiscus of rhodes standing in the temple of apollo, and furthermore a latona, a diana, the nine muses, and another apollo, which is naked. the apollo with his lyre in the same temple was made by timarchides, and in the temple of juno that stands within the portico of octavia the image of the goddess herself was made by dionysius, although there is another by polycles, while the venus in the same place was executed by philiscus and the other statues by praxiteles. polycles and dionysius, who were the sons of timarchides, were responsible also for the jupiter in the adjacent temple, while in the same place the pan and olympus wrestling, which is the second most famous grappling group in the world, was the work of heliodorus, the venus bathing of daedalsas, and the venus standing of polycharmus. it is clear from the honour accorded to it that a work much esteemed was that of lysias which augustus of revered memory dedicated in honour of his father octavius in a niche embellished with columns upon the arch on the palatine. this work consists of a team of four horses with a chariot and apollo with diana all carved from one block of marble. in the servilian gardens i find that works much admired are the apollo by the eminent engraver calamis, the boxers by dercylides, and the historian callisthenes by amphistratus. beyond these men, there are not a great many more that are famous. the reputation of some, distinguished though their work may be, has been obscured by the number of artists engaged with them on a single task, because no individual monopolizes the credit nor again can several of them be named on equal terms. this is the case with the laocoon in the palace of the emperor titus, a work superior to any painting and any bronze. laocoon, his children and the wonderful clasping coils of the snakes were caned from a single block in accordance with an agreed plan by those eminent craftsmen hagesander, polydorus and athenodorus, all of rhodes. similarly, the imperial mansions on the palatine were filled with excellent statues made by pairs of artists, craterus and pythodorus, polydeuces and hermolaus, another pythodorus and artemon, and individually by aphrodisius of tralles. the pantheon of agrippa was embellished by diogenes of athens; and among the supporting members of this temple there are caryatids that are almost in a class of their own, and the same is true of the figures on the angles of the pediment, which are, however, not so well known because of their lofty position. a work that is without honour and stands in no temple is the hercules, before which the carthaginians were wont to perform human sacrifices every year. this stands at ground-level in front of the entrance to the portico of the nations. formerly too there were statues of the thespiads (muses) by the temple of felicitas, and a roman knight, junius pisciculus, fell in love with one of them, according to varro, who incidentally was an admirer of pasiteles, a sculptor who was also the author of a treatise in five volumes on the world's famous masterpieces. he was a native of magna graecia and received roman citizenship along with the communities of that region. the ivory jupiter in the temple of metellus at the approaches to the campus martius is his work. once, he was at the docks, where there were wild beasts from africa, and was making a relief of a lion, peering as he did so into the cage at his model, when it so happened that a leopard broke out of another cage and caused serious danger to this most conscientious of artists. he is said to have executed a number of works but their titles are not recorded. arcesilaus, highly praised by varro, who states that he once possessed a work of his, namely winged cupids playing with a lioness, of whom some were holding it with cords, some were making it drink from a horn, and some were putting slippers on its feet, all the figures having been carved from one block. varro relates also that it was coponius who was responsible for the fourteen figures of nations that stand around the pompeium. i find that canachus, who was much admired as a maker of bronzes, also executed figures in marble. nor should we forget sauras and batrachus, who built the temples that are enclosed by the porticoes of octavia. they were mere natives of sparta. and yet, some people actually suppose that they were very rich and erected the temples at their own expense because they hoped to be honoured by an inscription; and the story is that, although this was refused, they attained their object in another way. at any rate, on the moulded bases of the columns there are still in existence carvings of a lizard and a frog in token of their names. one of these temples is that of jupiter, in which the subjects of the paintings and of all the other embellishments are concerned with women. for it had been intended as the temple of juno; but, according to the tradition, the porters interchanged the cult-images when they were installing them, and this arrangement was preserved as a matter of religious scruple, in the belief that the gods themselves had allotted their dwelling-places in this way. similarly, therefore, the embellishments in the temple of juno are those that were destined for the temple of jupiter. 