the most highly valued of human possessions, let alone gemstones, is the 'adamas,' which for long was known only to kings, and to very few of them. 'adamas' was the name given to the 'knot of gold' found very occasionally in mines in association with gold and, so it seemed, formed only in gold. our ancient authorities thought that it was found only in the mines of ethiopia between the temple of mercury and the island of meroe, and stated that the specimens discovered were no larger than a cucumber seed and not unlike one in colour. now, for the first time, as many as six kinds of 'adamas' are recognized. there is the indian, which is not formed in gold and has a certain affinity with rock-crystal, which it resembles in respect of its transparency and its smooth faces meeting at six corners. it tapers to a point in two opposite directions and is all the more remarkable because it is like two whorls joined together at their broadest parts. it can be as large even as a hazel nut. similar to the indian, only smaller, is the arabian, which is, moreover, formed under similar conditions. the rest have a silvery pallor and are liable to be formed only in the midst of the finest gold. all these stones can be tested upon an anvil, and they are so recalcitrant to blows that an iron hammer head may split in two and even the anvil itself be unseated. indeed, the hardness of 'adamas' is indescribable, and so too that property whereby it conquers fire and never becomes heated. hence it derives its name, because, according to the meaning of the term in greek, it is the unconquerable force. one of these stones is called in greek 'cenchros,' or millet seed, and is like a millet seed in size. a second is known as the macedonian and is found in the goldmines of philippi. this is equal in size to a cucumber seed. next comes the so-called cyprian, which is found in cyprus and tends towards the colour of copper, but has potent medical properties, which i shall describe later. after this, there is the 'siderites,' or 'iron stone,' which shines like iron and exceeds the rest in weight, but has different properties. for it can not only be broken by hammering but also be pierced by another 'adamas.' this can happen also to the cyprian kind, and, in a word, these stones, being untrue to their kind, possess only the prestige of the name they bear. now throughout the whole of this work i have tried to illustrate the agreement and disagreement that exist in nature, the greek terms for which are respectively 'sympathia,' or 'natural affinity,' and 'antipathia,' or 'natural aversion.' here more clearly than anywhere can these principles be discerned. for this 'unconquerable force' that defies nature's two most powerful substances, iron and fire, can be broken up by goat's blood. but it must be steeped in blood that is fresh and still warm, and even so needs many hammer blows. even then, it may break all but the best anvils and iron hammers. to whose researches or to what accident must we attribute this discovery? what inference could have led anyone to use the foulest of creatures for testing a priceless substance such as this? surely it is to divinities that we must attribute such inventions and all such benefits. we must not expect to find reason anywhere in nature, but only the evidence of will! when an 'adamas' is successfully broken it disintegrates into splinters so small as to be scarcely visible. these are much sought after by engravers of gems and are inserted by them into iron tools because they make hollows in the hardest materials without difficulty. the 'adamas' has so strong an aversion to the magnet that when it is placed close to the iron it prevents the iron from being attracted away from itself. or again, if the magnet is moved towards the iron and seizes it, the 'adamas' snatches the iron and takes it away. 'adamas' prevails also over poisons and renders them powerless, dispels attacks of wild distraction and drives groundless fears from the mind. for this reason the greeks sometimes call it 'anancites,' or 'compulsive.' metrodorus of scepsis is alone, so far as i know from my own reading, in stating that 'adamas' is found likewise in germany, namely on the island of basilia, which also produces amber, and in preferring this 'adamas' to that of arabia. there can be no doubt that this statement is untrue. 