there are several kinds of amber. of these, the pale kind has the finest scent, but, like the waxy kind, it has no value. the tawny is more valuable; and still more so if it is transparent, but the colour must not be too fiery: not a fiery glare, but a mere suggestion of it, is what we admire in amber. the most highly approved specimens are the 'palernian,' so called because they recall the colour of the wine: they are transparent and glow gently, so as to have, moreover, the agreeably mellow tint of honey that has been reduced by boiling. however, it ought to be generally known also that amber can be tinted, as desired, with kid-suet and the root of alkanet. indeed, it is now stained even with purple dye. to resume, when rubbing with the fingers draws forth the hot exhalation, amber attracts straw, dry leaves and linden-bark, just as the magnet attracts iron. moreover, amber chippings, when steeped in oil, burn brighter and longer than the pith of flax. its rating among luxuries is so high that a human figurine, however small, is more expensive than a number of human beings, alive and in good health; and as a result it is quite impossible for a single rebuke to suffice. in the case of corinthian bronzes, we are attracted by the appearance of the bronze, which is alloyed with gold and silver; and in the case of chased metalwork, by artistry and inventiveness. vessels of fluorspar and rock-crystal have beauties which we have already described. pearls can be carded about on the head, and gems on the finger. in short, every other substance for which we have a weakness pleases us because it lends itself either to display or to practical use, whereas amber gives us only the private satisfaction of knowing that it is a luxury. among the other portentous events of his career is the fact that domitius nero bestowed this name on the hair of his wife poppaea, even going so far as to call it in one of his poems 'sucint' or 'amber-coloured,' for no defect lacks a term that represents it as an asset. from that time, respectable women began to aspire to this as a third possible colour for their hair. 