next in esteem to the cyprian 'smaragdi' come the ethiopian, which, according to juba, are found at a distance of twenty-five days' journeying from coptos, and are bright green, although they are rarely flawless or uniform in democritus includes in this class the thermiaean and persian stones! he states that the former are massive and convex, while the persian stones, although they are not transparent, satisfy the eye with their agreeably uniform colour without allowing it to see within. he compares them to the eyes of cats and leopards, which likewise shine without being transparent, and mentions, moreover, that the stones are dimmed in sunlight, glisten in shadow and shine farther than other stones. all these varieties have a further defect in that their colour may be that of gall or rancid oil, so that they may be bright and clear, and yet not green. these faults are particularly noticeable in the attic stones found in the silver-mines at a place called thoricus. they are always less massive than the others, but are more handsome when seen at a distance. these stones too are often marred by lead-like inclusions, as a result of which they resemble lead when they are seen in sunlight. one peculiarity is that some of these stones show the effects of age as their green colour gradually fades away and, moreover, are damaged by exposure to the sun. after these come the median stones, which show a great variety of tints and on occasion are even blended to some extent with lapis lazuli. these stones have undulating bands and contain inclusions resembling various objects, for example, poppy heads, birds, the young of animals or feathers. such stones, in spite of their varied colours, seem to be green by nature, since they may be improved by being steeped in oil and there is no variety that displays larger specimens. the 'smaragdi' of chalcedon have perhaps completely disappeared now that the copper-mines in the district have failed; and, in any case, they were always worthless and very small. moreover, they were brittle and of a nondescript colour, this being more or less bright according to the angle at which it was viewed, like the green feathers in a peacock's tail or on a pigeon's neck. furthermore, they were marked with veins and were scaly. they had also a characteristic defect called 'sarcion,' that is a kind of fleshy growth on the stone. there is a mountain known as smaragdites, or emerald mountain, near chalcedon, on which they used to be gathered. juba states that a 'smaragdus' known as 'chlora,' or 'green stone,' is used as an inlay in decorating houses in arabia; and likewise the stone which the egyptians call 'alabastrites.' several of our most recent authorities mention not only laconian 'smaragdi,' which are dug on mount taygetus and resemble the median variety, but also others that are found in sicily. 