however, it was this victory of pompey over mithridates that made fashion veer to pearls and gemstones. the victories of lucius scipio and of cnaeus manlius had done the same for chased silver, garments of cloth of gold and dining couches inlaid with bronze; and that of mummius for corinthian bronzes and fine paintings. to make my point clearer, i shall append statements taken directly from official records of pompey's triumphs. thus, pompey's third triumph was held on his own birthday, september 29th of the year in which marcus piso and marcus messala were consuls, to celebrate his [61 b.c.] conquest of the pirates, asia, pontus and all the peoples and kings mentioned in the seventh volume of this work. in this triumph, then, there was carried in the procession a gaming-board complete with a set of pieces, the board being made of two precious minerals and measuring three feet broad and four feet long. and in case anyone should doubt that our natural resources have become exhausted seeing that today no gems even approach such a size, there rested on this board a golden moon weighing 30 pounds. there were also displayed three gold dining couches; enough gold vessels inlaid with gems to fill nine display stands; three gold figures of minerva, mars and apollo respectively; thirty-three pearl crowns; a square mountain of gold with deer, lions and every variety of fruit on it and a golden vine entwined around it; and a grotto of pearls, on the top of which there was a sundial. furthermore, there was pompey's portrait rendered in pearls, that portrait so pleasing with the handsome growth of hair swept back from the forehead, the portrait of that noble head revered throughout the world — that portrait, i say, that portrait was rendered in pearls. here it was austerity that was defeated and extravagance that more truly celebrated its triumph. never, i think, would his surname 'the great' have survived among the stalwarts of that age had he celebrated his first triumph in this fashion! to think that it is of pearls, great pompey, those wasteful things meant only for women, of pearls, which you yourself cannot and must not wear, that your portrait is made! to think that this is how you make yourself seem valuable! is not then the trophy that you placed upon the summit of the pyrenees a better likeness of yourself? this, to be sure, would have been a gross and foul disgrace were it not rather to be deemed a cruel omen of heaven's wrath. that head, so ominously manifested without its body in oriental splendour, bore a meaning which even then could not be mistaken. but as for the rest of that triumph, how worthy it was of a good man and true! 200,000,000 sesterces were given to the state, 100,000,000 to the commanders and quaestors who had guarded the coasts and 6000 to each soldier. however, he merely made it easier for us to excuse the conduct of the emperor gaius when, apart from other effeminate articles of clothing, he wore slippers sewn with pearls, or that of the emperor nero, when he had sceptres, actors' masks and travelling couches adorned with pearls. why, we seem to have lost even the right to criticize cups and other pieces of household equipment inlaid with gems or, again, rings with stones set in open bezels. for compared with pompey's, there is no extravagance that can be considered to have been so harmful. 