the heliotrope, which is found in ethiopia, africa and cyprus, is leek-green in colour, but is marked with blood-red streaks. the name is explained by the fact that, when the stone is dropped into a vessel of water and bright sunshine falls upon it, in reflecting the sunlight it changes it into the colour of blood. this is true especially of the ethiopian variety. when it is out of water, the same stone catches the sunlight like a mirror and detects solar eclipses, showing the passage of the moon below the sun's disc. here, moreover, we have quite the most blatant instance of effrontery on the part of the magi, who say that when the heliotrope plant is joined to the stone and certain prayers are pronounced over them the wearer is rendered invisible. the 'hephaestitis,' or 'hephaestus stone,' is another that acts like a mirror in reflecting images, even though it is red. the test of its genuineness is that boiling water when poured over it should cool immediately; or, alternatively, that when placed in the sun it should immediately set fire to a parched substance. the stone is found at corycus. the hermuaedoeon, or 'sexual organ of hermes,' is so called from its resemblance to the male organ, the gemstone on which the likeness appears being white or sometimes black, or pale yellow, and surrounded by a circular band of golden yellow. the 'hexecontalithos,' or 'sixty-stones-in-one,' contains many colours in a small compass, and so has appropriated its name. it is found in the cave-dweller country. the 'hieracitis,' or 'kite stone,' is entirely covered with feathery scales, black ones alternating with others resembling a kite's feathers. 'hammitis,' or 'sandy stone,' resembles fish roe, and there is another kind that looks as if it were composed of soda, but is otherwise just a very hard stone. 'hammonis cornu,' or 'horn of ammon,' which is among the most sacred stones of ethiopia, has a golden yellow colour and is shaped like a ram's horn. the stone is guaranteed to ensure without fail dreams that will come true. the 'hormiscion,' or 'necklace stone,' which in its appearance is among the most pleasing of gemstones, reflects beams of gold from a fiery red ground, and these gold beams carry a white gleam at their tips. 'hyaeniae,' or 'hyena stones,' are, it is said, obtained from the eyes of the hyena, which is actually attacked for the purpose. when the stones are placed under a man's tongue, they are alleged to foretell the future, if we are foolish enough to believe such a thing. 'haematitis' of the finest quality occurs in ethiopia, but the stone is found also both in arabia and in africa. it is blood-red in colour. we must not omit to mention the claims made for it, so that we may expose the treacherous frauds perpetrated by the magi. zachalias of babylon, in the volumes which he dedicates to king mithridates, attributes man's destiny to the influence of precious stones; and as for the 'haematitis,' he is not content to credit it with curing diseases of the eyes and liver, but places it even in the hands of petitioners to the king, allows it to interfere in lawsuits and trials, and proclaims also that to be smeared with an ointment containing it is beneficial in battle. there is another stone of the same kind which is sometimes called 'menui,' and sometimes 'xuthos,' or 'brownish-yellow' stone. this is the name given by the greeks to stones that are. light brown. 