behind these mountains, and beyond the region of the northern winds, there dwells, if we choose to believe it, a happy race, known as the hyperborei, a race that lives to an extreme old age, and which has been the subject of many marvellous stories. at this spot are supposed to be the hinges upon which the world revolves, and the extreme limits of the revolutions of the stars. here we find light for six months together, given by the sun in one continuous day, who does not, however, as some ignorant persons have asserted, conceal himself from the vernal equinox to autumn. on the contrary, to these people there is but one rising of the sun for the year, and that at the summer solstice, and but one setting, at the winter solstice. this region, warmed by the rays of the sun, is of a most delightful temperature, and exempt from every noxious blast. the abodes of the natives are the woods and groves; the gods receive their worship singly and in groups, while all discord and every kind of sickness are things utterly unknown. death comes upon them only when satiated with life; after a career of feasting, in an old age sated with every luxury, they leap from a certain rock there into the sea; and this they deem the most desirable mode of ending existence. some writers have placed these people, not in europe, but at the very verge of the shores of asia, because we find there a people called the attacori, who greatly resemble them and occupy a very similar locality. other writers again have placed them midway between the two suns, at the spot where it sets to the antipodes and rises to us; a thing however that cannot possibly be, in consequence of the vast tract of sea which there intervenes. those writers who place them nowhere but under a day which lasts for six months, state that in the morning they sow, at mid-day they reap, at sunset they gather in the fruits of the trees, and during the night conceal themselves in caves. nor are we at liberty to entertain any doubts as to the existence of this race; so many authors are there who assert that they were in the habit of sending their first-fruits to delos to present them to apollo, whom in especial they worship. virgins used to carry them, who for many years were held in high veneration, and received the rites of hospitality from the nations that lay on the route; until at last, in consequence of repeated violations of good faith, the hyperboreans came to the determination to deposit these offerings upon the frontiers of the people who adjoined them, and they in their turn were to convey them on to their neighbours, and so from one to the other, till they should have arrived at delos. however, this custom, even, in time fell into disuse. 