nearer spain, its coast along the gallic ocean: at the promontory of the pyrenees spain begins, more narrow, not only than gaul, but even than itself in its other parts, as we have previously mentioned, seeing to what an immense extent it is here hemmed in by the ocean on the one side, and by the iberian sea on the other. a chain of the pyrenees, extending from due east to south-west, divides spain into two parts, the smaller one to the north, the larger to the south. the first coast that presents itself is that of the nearer spain, otherwise called tarraconensis. on leaving the pyrenees and proceeding along the coast, we meet with the forest ranges of the vascones, olarso, the towns of the varduli, the morosgi, menosca, vesperies, and the port of amanus, where now stands the colony of flaviobriga. we then come to the district of the nine states of the cantabri, the river sauga, and the port of victoria of the juliobrigenses, from which place the sources of the iberus are distant forty miles. we next come to the port of blendium, the orgenomesci, a people of the cantabri, vereasueca their port, the country of the astures, the town of noega, and on a peninsula, the paesici. next to these we have, belonging to the jurisdiction of lucus, after passing the river navilubio, the cibarci, the egovarri, surnamed namarini, the iadoni, the arrotrebae, the celtic promontory, the rivers florius and nelo, the celtici, surnamed neri, and above them the tamarici, in whose peninsula are the three altars called sestianae, and dedicated to augustus; the capori, the town of noela, the celtici surnamed praesamarci, and the cilen: of the islands, those worthy of mention are corticata and aunios. after passing the cileni, belonging to the jurisdiction of the bracari, we have the heleni, the gravii, and the fortress of tyde, all of them deriving their origin from the greeks. also, the islands called cicae, the famous city of abobrica, the river minius, four miles wide at its mouth, the leuni, the seurbi, and augusta, a town of the bracari, above whom lies gallaecia. we then come to the river limia, and the river durius, one of the largest in spain, and which rises in the district of the pelendones, passes near numantia, and through the arevaci and the vaccaei, dividing the vettones from asturia, the gallaeci from lusitania, and separating the turduli from the bracari. the whole of the region here mentioned from the pyrenees is full of mines of gold, silver, iron, and lead, both black and white. 