the city of siga, formerly the residence of king syphax, lies opposite to that of malaca in spain: it now belongs to the second mauritania. but these countries, i should remark, for a long time retained the names of their respective kings, the further mauritania being called the "land of bogud," while that which is now called caesariensis was called the "country of bocchus." after passing siga we come to the haven called "portus magnus" from its great extent, with a town whose people enjoy the rights of roman citizens, and then the river mulucha, which served as the limit between the territory of bocchus and that of the massaesyli. next to this is quiza xenitana, a town founded by strangers, and arsenaria, a place with the ancient latin rights, three miles distant from the sea. we then come to cartenna, a colony founded under augustus by the second legion, and gunugum, another colony founded by the same emperor, a praetorian cohort being established there; the promontory of apollo, and a most celebrated city, now called caesarea, but formerly known by the name of iol; this place was the residence of king juba, and received the rights of a colony from the now deified emperor claudius. oppidum novum is the next place; a colony of veterans was established here by command of the same emperor. next to it is tipasa, which has received latin rights, as also icasium, which has been presented by the emperor vespasianus with similar rights; rusconiae, a colony founded by augustus; rusucurium, honoured by claudius with the rights of roman citizens; ruzacus, a colony founded by augustus; salde, another colony founded by the same emperor; igilgili, another; and the town of tucca, situate on the sea-shore and upon the river ampsaga. in the interior are the colony of augusta, also called succabar, tubusuptus, the cities of timici and tigavae, the rivers sardabal, aves, and nabar, the nation of the macurebi, the river usar, and the nation of the nababes. the river ampsaga is distant from caesarea 322 miles. the length of the two mauritanias is 1038, and their breadth 467 miles. 