the river nile: the sources of the nile are unascertained, and, travelling as it does for an immense distance through deserts and burning sands, it is only known to us by common report, having neither experienced the vicissitudes of warfare, nor been visited by those arms which have so effectually explored all other regions. it rises, so far indeed as king juba was enabled to ascertain, in a mountain of lower mauritania, not far from the ocean; immediately after which it forms a lake of standing water, which bears the name of nilides. in this lake are found the several kinds of fish known by the names of alabeta, coracinus, and silurus; a crocodile also was brought thence as a proof that this really is the nile, and was consecrated by juba himself in the temple of isis at caesarea, where it may be seen at the present day. in addition to these facts, it has been observed that the waters of the nile rise in the same proportion in which the snows and rains of mauritania increase. pouring forth from this lake, the river disdains to flow through arid and sandy deserts, and for a distance of several days' journey conceals itself; after which it bursts forth at another lake of greater magnitude in the country of the massaesyli, a people of mauritania caesariensis, and thence casts a glance around, as it were, upon the communities of men in its vicinity, giving proofs of its identity in the same peculiarities of the animals which it produces. it then buries itself once again in the sands of the desert, and remains concealed for a distance of twenty days' journey, till it has reached the confines of aethiopia. here, when it has once more become sensible of the presence of man, it again emerges, at the same source, in all probability, to which writers have given the name of niger, or black. after this, forming the boundary-line between africa and aethiopia, its banks, though not immediately peopled by man, are the resort of numbers of wild beasts and animals of various kinds. giving birth in its course to dense forests of trees, it travels through the middle of aethiopia, under the name of astapus, a word which signifies, in the language of the nations who dwell in those regions, "water issuing from the shades below." proceeding onwards, it divides innumerable islands in its course, and some of them of such vast magnitude, that although its tide runs with the greatest rapidity, it is not less than five days in passing them. when making the circuit of meroe, the most famous of these islands, the left branch of the river is called astobores, or, in other words, "an arm of the water that issues from the shades," while the right arm has the name of astosapes, which adds to its original signification the meaning of "side." it does not obtain the name of "nile" until its waters have again met and are united in a single stream; and even then, for some miles both above and below the point of confluence, it has the name of siris. homer has given to the whole of this river the name of egyptus, while other writers again have called it triton. every now and then its course is interrupted by islands which intervene, and which only serve as so many incentives to add to the impetuosity of its torrent; and though at last it is hemmed in by mountains on either side, in no part is the tide more rapid and precipitate. its waters then hastening onwards, it is borne along to the spot in the country of the aethiopians which is known by the name of "catadupi;" where, at the last cataract, the complaint is, not that it flows, but that it rushes, with an immense noise between the rocks that lie in its way: after which it becomes more smooth, the violence of its waters is broken and subdued, and, wearied out as it were by the length of the distance it has travelled, it discharges itself, though by many mouths, into the egyptian sea. during certain days of the year, however, the volume of its waters is greatly increased, and as it traverses the whole of egypt, it inundates the earth, and, by so doing, greatly promotes its fertility. 