the remaining places and nations on the mainland, lying still to the south, are the ausaritae, to whose country it is seven days' journey among the mountains, the nations of the larendani and the catabani, and the gebanitae, who occupy a great number of towns, the largest of which are nagia, and thomna with sixty-five temples, a number which fully bespeaks its size. we then come to a promontory, from which to the mainland of the troglodytae it is fifty miles, and then the thoani, the actaei, the chatramotitae, the tonabei, the antidalei, the lexianae, the agraei, the cerbani, and the sabaei, the best known of all the tribes of arabia, on account of their frankincense; these nations extend from sea to sea. the towns which belong to them on the red sea are marane, marma, corolia, and sabatha; and in the interior, nascus, cardava, carnus, and thomala, from which they bring down their spices for exportation. one portion of this nation is the atramitae, whose capital, sabota, has sixty temples within its walls. but the royal city of all these nations is mariaba; it lies upon a bay, ninety-four miles in extent, and filled with islands that produce perfumes. lying in the interior, and joining up to the atramitae, are the mitaei; are the minae; the elamitae dwell on the sea-shore, in a city from which they take their name. next to these are the chaculatae; then the town of sibi, by the greeks called apate; the arsi, the codani, the vadei, who dwell in a large town, the barasasaei, the lechieni, and the island of sygaros, into the interior of which no dogs are admitted, and so being exposed on the sea shore, they wander about there and are left to die. we then come to a gulf which runs far into the interior, upon which are situate the laenitae, who have given to it their name; also their royal city of agra, and upon the gulf that of laeana, or as some call it aelana; indeed, by some of our writers this has been called the aelanitic gulf, and by others again, the aelenitic; artemidorus calls it the alenitic, and juba the laenitic. the circumference of arabia, measured from charax to laeana, is said to be four thousand six hundred and sixty-six miles, but juba thinks that it is somewhat less than four thousand. its widest part is at the north, between the cities of heroopolis and charax. we will now mention the remaining places and peoples of the interior of arabia. 