as for arabia itself, it is a peninsula, running out between the red and the persian seas; and it is by a kind of design, apparently on the part of nature, that it is surrounded by the sea in such a manner as to resemble very much the form and size of italy, there being no difference either in the climate of the two countries, as they lie in the same latitudes. this, too, renders it equally fertile with the countries of italy. we have already mentioned its peoples, which extend from our sea as far as the deserts of palmyrene, and we shall now proceed to a description of the remainder. the scenitae, as we have already stated, border upon the nomades and the tribes that ravage the territories of chaldaea, being themselves of wandering habits, and receiving their name from the tents which constitute their dwellings; these are made of goats' hair, and they pitch them wherever they please. next after them are the nabataei, who have a city called petra, which lies in a deep valley, somewhat less than two miles in width, and surrounded by inaccessible mountains, between which a river flows: it is distant from the city of gaza, on our shores, six hundred miles, and from the persian gulf one hundred and thirty-five. at this place two roads meet, the one leading from syria to palmyra, and the other from gaza. on leaving petra we come to the omani, who dwell as far as charax, with their once famous cities which were built by semiramis, besannisa and soractia by name; at the present day they are wildernesses. we next come to a city situate on the banks of the pasitigris, fora by name, and subject to the king of charax: to this place people resort on their road from petra, and sail thence to charax, twelve miles distant, with the tide. if you are proceeding by water from the parthian territories, you come to a village known as teredon; and below the confluence of the euphrates and tigris, you have the chaldaei dwelling on the left side of the river, and the nomadic tribes of the scenitae on the right. some writers also make mention of two other cities situate at long intervals, as you sail along the tigris, barbatia, and then thumata, distant from petra, they say, ten days' sail; our merchants report that these places are subject to the king of charax. the same writers also state, that apamea is situate where the overflow of the euphrates unites with the tigris; and that when the parthians meditate an incursion, the inhabitants dam up the river by embankments, and so inundate their country. 