the localities of this region are as follow: on passing the aelanitic gulf there is another gulf, by the arabians called soea, upon which is situate the city of heroon. the town of cambysu also stood here formerly, between the neli and the marchades, cambyses having established there the invalids of his army. we then come to the nation of the tyri, and the port of the danei, from which place an attempt has been made to form a navigable canal to the river nile, at the spot where it enters the delta previously mentioned, the distance between the river and the red sea being sixty-two miles. this was contemplated first of all by sesostris, king of egypt, afterwards by darius, king of the persians, and still later by ptolemy 2., who also made a canal, one hundred feet in width and forty deep, extending a distance of thirty-seven miles and a half, as far as the bitter springs. he was deterred from proceeding any further with this work by apprehensions of an inundation, upon finding that the red sea was three cubits higher than the land in the interior of egypt. some writers, however, do not allege this as the cause, but say that his reason was, a fear lest, in consequence of introducing the sea, the water of the nile might be spoilt, that being the only source from which the egyptians obtain water for drinking. be this as it may, the whole of the journey from the egyptian sea is usually performed by land one of the three following ways: — either from pelusium across the sands, in doing which the only method of finding the way is by means of reeds fixed in the earth, the wind immediately effacing all traces of footsteps: by the route which begins two miles beyond mount casius, and at a distance of sixty miles enters the road from pelusium, adjoining to which road the arabian tribe of the autei dwell; or else by a third route, which leads from gerrum, and which they call adipsos, passing through the same arabians, and shorter by nearly sixty miles, but running over rugged mountains and through a district destitute of water. all these roads lead to arsinoe, a city founded in honour of his sister's name, upon the gulf of carandra, by ptolemy philadelphus, who was the first to explore troglodytice, and called the river which flows before arsinoe by the name of ptolemaeus. after this comes the little town of enum, by some writers mentioned as philotera; next to which are the abasaei, a nation sprung from intermarriages with the troglodytae, then some wild arabian tribes, the islands of sapirine and scytala, and after these, deserts as far as myoshormon, where we find the fountain of tatnos, mount aeas, the island of iambe, and numerous harbours. berenice also, is here situate, so called after the name of the mother of philadelphus, and to which there is a road from coptos, as we have previously stated; then the arabian autei, and the zebadei. 