woman is, however, the only animal that has monthly periods; consequently she alone has what are called moles in her womb. this mole is a shapeless and inanimate mass of flesh that resists the point and the edge of a knife; it moves about, and it checks menstruation, as it also checks births: in some cases causing death, in others growing old with the patient, sometimes when the bowels are violently moved being ejected. a similar object is also formed in the stomach of males, called a tumour, as in the case of the praetorian oppius capito. but nothing could easily be found that is more remarkable than the monthly flux of women. contact with it turns new wine sour, crops touched by it become barren, grafts die, seeds in gardens are dried up, the fruit of trees falls off, the bright surface of mirrors in which it is merely reflected is dimmed, the edge of steel and the gleam of ivory are dulled, hives of bees die, even bronze and iron are at once seized by rust, and a horrible smell fills the air; to taste it drives dogs mad and infects their bites with an incurable poison. moreover bitumen, a substance generally sticky and viscous, that at a certain season of the year floats on the surface of the lake of judaea called the asphalt pool [dead sea], adheres to everything touching it, and cannot be drawn asunder except by a thread soaked in the poisonous fluid in question. even that very tiny creature the ant is said to be sensitive to it, and throws away grains of corn that taste of it and does not touch them again. not only does this pernicious mischief occur in a woman every month, but it comes in larger quantity every three months; and in some cases it comes more frequently than once a month, just as in certain women it never occurs at all. the latter, however, do not have children, since the substance in question is the material for human generation, as the semen from the males acting like rennet collects this substance within it, which thereupon immediately is inspired with life and endowed with body. hence when this flux occurs with women heavy with child, the offspring is sickly or still-born or sanious, according to nigidius. 