moreover, it is known that children cut their first teeth when six months old, the upper ones mostly coming first, and that the first teeth fall out and are replaced by others when they are six years old; and that some children are born having teeth — two distinguished instances are manius curius, who received the surname dentatus in consequence, and gnaeus papirius carbo. in the regal period this occurrence was considered a sign of bad luck in females; valeria was born with teeth, and the soothsayers in reply to inquiry prophesied that she would bring disaster to any community to which she was taken; she was deported to suessa pometia, at that period a very flourishing place, the eventual result verifying the oracle. (some females are born with the genitals closed; this is proved by the ease of cornelia the mother of the gracchi to be a sign of bad luck.) some infants are born with a ridge of bone instead of teeth; this was the case as regards the upper jaw with the son of prusias, king of bithynia. the teeth are so far indestructible by fire as not to burn when the rest of the body is cremated, but although they resist fire they are corroded by a morbid state of the saliva. a certain drug gives them whiteness. use wears them down, and in some people they decay much before this. nor are they only necessary for food and nourishment, as the front teeth regulate the voice and speech, meeting the impact of the tongue with a kind of harmony, and according to their regularity of arrangement and size clipping or modulating or else dulling the words, and when they are lost preventing all clear articulation. moreover this part of the body is believed to possess prophetic powers. males (excepting the turduli tribe) have 32 teeth; there have been cases of men with more — this is thought to foretell a longer term of life. women have fewer; with them two dogteeth on the right side of the upper jaw are a promise of fortune's favours, as in the case of domitius nero's mother agrippina; on the left side the opposite. — (it is the universal custom of mankind not to cremate a person who dies before cutting his teeth.) — but more of this later when our researches go through the parts of the body seriatim. 