the son of this metellus who made those remarks about his father is also counted among the exceptional instances of human happiness. besides receiving an abundance of high honours and the surname of macedonicus, he was borne to the tomb by four sons, one a praetor, three ex-consuls (two winners of triumphs), one an ex-censor — things that even separately have fallen to few men's lot. nevertheless at the very height of his distinguished career, when coming back from the field at midday, the market place and capitol being empty, he was carried off to the tarpeian rock by gaius atinius labeo, surnamed macerio, tribune of the plebs, whom when censor he had ejected from the senate, with the intention of hurling him down the cliff; the numerous company of persons who called him their father did it is true hasten to his aid, but as was inevitable in this sudden emergency, too late and as if coming for his funeral, and as he had not the right to resist and to repel the hallowed person of a tribune his virtue and his strictness would have resulted in his destruction, but with difficulty another tribune was found to intercede, and he was recalled from the very threshold of death; and subsequently he lived on the charity of another, as his own property had immediately been confiscated on the proposal of the very man whom he had himself caused to be condemned, just as though the penalty exacted from him of having his throat tied in a rope and the blood forced out through his ears were not sufficient! although for my own part i should also reckon it as a disaster to have been at enmity with the second africanus, on the evidence of macedonicus himself, inasmuch as he said, "go, my sons, celebrate his obsequies; you will never see the funeral of a greater citizen!" and he said this to sons who had already won the titles of balearicus and dalmaticus, while he himself was already macedonicus. but even if only that injury be taken into account, who could rightly pronounce happy this man who ran the risk of perishing at the will of an enemy, and him not even an africanus? victory over what enemies was worth so much? or what honours and triumphal cars did not fortune put into the shade by that violent stroke — a censor dragged through the middle of the city (for this had been the sole reason for delaying), dragged to that same capitol to which he himself had not thus dragged even prisoners when he was triumphing over the spoils taken from them? this was rendered a greater crime by the happiness that followed, as it placed macedonicus in danger of losing even that great and glorious funeral in which he was carried to the pyre by his children who had themselves won triumphs, so that even his obsequies were a triumphal procession. assuredly it is no firmly founded happiness that any outrage in a man's career has shattered, let alone so great an outrage as that. for the rest i know not whether it counts to the credit of our morals or increases the anguish of our indignation that among all the many metelli that criminal audacity of gaius atinius for ever went unpunished. 