there are various problems concerning the spirits of the departed after burial. all men are in the same state from their last day onward as they were before their first day, and neither body nor mind possesses any sensation after death, any more than it did before birth — for the same vanity prolongs itself also into the future and fabricates for itself a life lasting even into the period of death, sometimes bestowing on the soul immortality, sometimes transfiguration, sometimes giving sensation to those below, and worshipping ghosts and making a god of one who has already ceased to be even a man — just as if man's mode of breathing were in any way different from that of the other animals, or as if there were not many animals found of greater longevity, for which nobody prophesies a similar immortality! but what is the substance of the soul taken by itself? what is its material? where is its thought located? how does it see and hear, and with what does it touch? what use does it get from these senses, or what good can it experience without them? next, what is the abode. or how great is the multitude, of the souls or shadows in all these ages? these are fictions of childish absurdity, and belong to a mortality greedy for life unceasing. similar also is the vanity about preserving men's bodies, and about democritus's promise of our coming to life again — who did not come to life again himself! plague take it, what is this mad idea that life is renewed by death? what repose are the generations ever to have if the soul retains permanent sensation in the upper world and the ghost in the lower? assuredly this sweet but credulous fancy ruins nature's chief blessing, death, and doubles the sorrow of one about to die by the thought of sorrow to come hereafter also; for if to live is sweet, who can find it sweet to have done living? but how much easier and safer for each to trust in himself, and for us to derive our idea of future tranquillity from our experience of it before birth! 