brick-kilns and houses were first introduced by the brothers euryalus and hyperbius at athens; previously caves had served for dwellings. gellius accepts toxius son of uranus as the inventor of building with clay, the example having been taken from swallows' nests. cecrops named after himself the first town, cecropia, which is now the acropolis at athens; though some hold that argos had been founded before by king phoroneus, and certain authorities say sikyon also, but the egyptians hold that diospolis was founded in their country long before. tiles were invented by cinyra, son of agriopa, as well as mining for copper, both in the island of cyprus, and also the tongs, hammer, crowbar and anvil; wells by danaus who came from egypt to greece to the region that used to be called dry argos; stone quarrying by cadmus at thebes, or according to theophrastus, in phoenicia; walls were introduced by thrason, towers by the cyclopes according to aristotle but according to theophrastus by the tirynthians; woven fabrics by the egyptians, dyeing woollen stuffs by the lydians at sardis, the use of the spindle in the manufacture of woollen by closter son of arachne, linen and nets by arachne, the fuller's craft by nicias of megara, the shoemaker's by tychius of boeotia; medicine according to the egyptians was discovered among themselves, but according to others through the agency of arabus son of babylon and apollo; and the science of herbs and drugs was discovered by chiron the son of saturn and philyra. aristotle thinks that lydus the scythian showed how to melt and work copper, but theophrastus holds that it was the phrygian delas; manufactures of bronze some ascribe to the chalybes and others to the cyclopes; the forging of iron hesiod ascribes to the people called the dactyli of ida in crete. erichthonius of athens, or according to others aeacus, discovered silver; mining and smelting gold was invented by cadmus the phoenician at mount pangaeus, or according to others by thoas or aeacus in panchaia, or by the sun, son of oceanus, to whom gellius also assigns the discovery of medicine derived from minerals. tin was first imported by midacritus from the island of cassiteris. working in iron was invented by the cyclopes, potteries by coroebus of athens, the potter's wheel by the scythian anacharsis, or according to others by hyperbius of corinth. carpentry was invented by daedalus, and with it the saw, axe, plumb-line, gimlet, glue, isinglass; but the square, the plummet, the lathe and the lever by theodorus of samos, measures and weights by phidon of argos, or, as gellius preferred, palamedes; fire from flint by pyrodes son of cilix, the storing of fire in a fennel-stalk by prometheus; a vehicle with four wheels by the phrygians, trade by the phoenicians, viticulture and arboriculture by eumolpus of athens, diluting wine with water by staphylus son of silenus, oil and oil-mills by aristaeus of athens, honey by the same; the ox and the plough by buzyges of athens, or, as others say, by triptolemus; monarchical government by the egyptians, republican by the athenians after theseus. the first tyrant was phalaris at akragas. slavery was invented by the spartans. capital trials were first carried on in the areopagus. 