the lion is specially high-spirited at the time when its neck and shoulders are clothed with a mane — for this occurs at maturity in the case of those sired by a lion, though those begotten by leopards always lack this characteristic; and the females likewise. sexual passion is strong in this species, with its consequence of quarrelsomeness in the males; this is most observed in africa, where the shortage of water makes the animals flock to the few rivers. there are consequently many varieties of hybrids in that country, either violence or lust mating the males with the females of each species indiscriminately. this is indeed the origin of the common saying of greece that africa is always producing some novelty. a lion detects intercourse with a leopard in the case of an adulterous mate by scent, and concentrates his entire strength on her chastisement; consequently this guilty stain is washed away in a stream, or else she keeps her distance when accompanying him. but i notice that there used to be a popular belief that the lioness only bears a cub once, as her womb is wounded by the points of its claws in delivery. aristotle, however, whose authority i feel bound to cite first as i am going in great part to follow him on these subjects, gives a different account. king alexander the great being fired with a desire to know the natures of animals and having delegated the pursuit of this study to aristotle as a man of supreme eminence in every branch of science, orders were given to some thousands of persons throughout the whole of asia and greece, all those who made their living by hunting, fowling, and fishing and those who were in charge of warrens, herds, apiaries, fishponds and aviaries, to obey his instructions, so that he might not fail to be informed about any creature born anywhere. his enquiries addressed to those persons resulted in the composition of his famous works on zoology, in nearly 50 volumes. to my compendium of these, with the addition of facts unknown to him, i request my readers to give a favourable reception, while making a brief excursion under our direction among the whole of the works of nature, the central interest of the most glorious of all sovereigns. aristotle then states that a lioness at the first birth produces five cubs, and each year one fewer, and after bearing a single cub becomes barren; and that the cubs are mere lumps of flesh and very small, at the beginning of the size of weasels, and at six months are scarcely able to walk, not moving at all until they are two months old; also that lions are found in europe only between the rivers achelous and mestus, but that these far exceed in strength those produced by africa and syria. 