elephants always travel in a herd; the oldest leads the column and the next oldest brings up the rear. when going to ford a river they put the smallest in front, so that the bottom may not be worn away by the tread of the larger ones, thus increasing the depth of the water. antipater states that two elephants employed for military purposes by king antiochus were known to the public even by name; indeed they know their own names. it is a fact that cato, although he has removed the names of military commanders from his annals, has recorded that the elephant in the carthaginian army that was the bravest in battle was called the syrian, and that it had one broken tusk. when antiochus was trying to ford a river his elephant ajax refused, though on other occasions it always led the line; thereupon antiochus issued an announcement that the elephant that crossed should have the leading place and he rewarded patroclus, who made the venture, with the gift of silver harness, an elephant's greatest delight, and with every other mark of leadership. the one disgraced preferred death by starvation to humiliation; for the elephant has a remarkable sense of shame, and when defeated shrinks from the voice of its conqueror, and offers him earth and foliage. owing to their modesty, elephants never mate except in secret, the male at the age of five and the female at ten; and mating takes place for two years, on five days, so it is said, of each year and not more; and on the sixth day they give themselves a shower-bath in a river, not returning to the herd before. adultery is unknown among them, or any of the fighting for females that is so disastrous to the other animals — though not because they are devoid of strong affection, for it is reported that one elephant in egypt fell in love with a girl who was selling flowers, and (that nobody may think that it was a vulgar choice) who was a remarkable favourite of the very celebrated scholar aristophanes; and another elephant is said to have fallen in love with a young soldier in ptolemy's army, a syracusan named menander, and whenever it did not see him to have shown its longing for him by refusing food. also juba records a girl selling scent who was loved by an elephant. in all these cases the animals showed their affection by their delight at the sight of the object and their clumsy gestures of endearment, and by keeping the branches given to them by the public and showering them in the loved one's lap. nor is it surprising that animals possessing memory are also capable of affection. for the same writer records a case of an elephant's recognizing many years later in old age a man who had been its mahout in its youth, and also an instance of a sort of insight in to justice, when king bocchus tied to stakes thirty elephants which he intended to punish and exposed them to a herd of the same number, men running out among them to provoke them to the attack, and it proved impossible to make them perform the service of ministering to another's cruelty. 