deer also a have their own form of stinginess although the stag is the gentlest of animals. when beset by a pack of hounds they fly for refuge of their own accord to a human being, and when giving birth to young are less careful to avoid paths worn by human footprints than secluded places that are advantageous for wild beasts. the mating season is after the rising of arcturus. pregnancy lasts eight months, and occasionally they bear twins. after mating the hinds withdraw, but the deserted males rage in a fury of desire, and score the ground with their horns; afterwards their snouts are black till a considerable rainfall washes off the dirt. the females before giving birth use a certain plant called hartwort as a purge, so having an easier delivery. after giving birth they browse on the two plants named dittany and seseli before they return to the young: for some reason or other they desire the sucklings' first draughts of milk to be flavoured with those herbs. when the fawns are born they exercise them in running and teach them to practise escaping, and take them to cliffs and show them how to jump. the males when at last freed from lustful desire greedily seek pasture; when they feel they are too fat, they look for lairs to hide in, showing that they are conscious of inconvenient weight. and on other occasions when running away from pursuit they always stop and stand gazing backward, when the hunters draw near again seeking refuge in flight: this is done owing to pain in the gut, which is so weak that a light blow causes internal rupture. but when they hear the baying of hounds they always run away down wind, so that their scent may go away with them. they can be charmed by a shepherd's pipe and by song. their hearing is very keen when they raise their ears, but dull when they drop them. in other respects the deer is a simple animal and stupefied by surprise at everything - so much so that when a horse or a heifer is approaching they do not notice a huntsman close to them, or if they see him merely gaze in wonder at his bow and arrows. they cross seas swimming in a herd strung out in line with their heads resting on the haunches of the ones in front of them, and taking turns to drop to the rear: this is most noticed when they are crossing from cilicia to cyprus; and they do not keep land in sight but swim towards its scent. the males have horns, and alone of animals shed them every year at a fixed time in spring; consequently when the day in question approaches they resort as much as possible to unfrequented places. when they have lost their home they keep in hiding as if disarmed - although these animals also are grudging of their special good: people say that a stag's right horn, which is endowed with some sort of healing drug, is never found; and this must be confessed to be the more surprising in view of the fact that even stags kept in warrens change their horns every year: it is thought that they bury them. the smell of either horn when burnt arrests attacks of epilepsy. they also bear marks of their age in their horns, each year till they are six years old adding one time; though thenceforward the horns grow again like the old ones and the age cannot be told by them. but old age is indicated by the teeth, for the old have either few or none, nor have they tines at the bottom of the horns, though otherwise these usually jut out in front of the brow when they are younger. when stags have been gelded the horns do not fall off nor grow again, but burst out with excrescences that keep springing again, at first resembling dry skin, and then grow up with tender shoots into reedy tufts feathered with soft down. as long as the stags are without them, they go out to graze in the nights. when they are growing again they harden them with the heat of the sun, subsequently testing them on trees, and only go out into the open when satisfied with theft strength; and before now they have been caught with green ivy on their antlers, that has been grafted on the tender horns as on a log of wood as a result of rubbing them against trees while testing them. stags are sometimes even of a white colour, as quintus sertorius's hind is said to have been, which he had persuaded the tribes of spain to believe prophetic. even stags are at war with a snake; they track out their holes and draw them out by means of the breath of their nostrils in spite of their resistance. consequently the smell made by burning stag's horn is an outstanding thing for driving away serpents, while a sovereign cure against bites is obtained from the rennet of a fawn killed in its mother's womb. stags admittedly have a long life, some having been caught a hundred years later with the gold necklaces that alexander the great had put on them already covered up by the hide in great folds of fat. this animal is not liable to feverish diseases - indeed it even supplies a prophylactic against their attack; we know that recently certain ladies of the imperial house have made a practice of eating venison every day in the morning and have been free from fevers throughout a long lifetime; though it is thought that this only holds good if the stag has been killed by a single wound. 