bears couple at the beginning of winter, and not in the usual manner of quadrupeds but both lying down and hugging each other; afterwards they retire apart into caves, in which they give birth on the thirtieth day to a litter of five cubs at most. these are a white and shapeless lump of flesh, little larger than mice, without eyes or hair and only the claws projecting. this lump the mother bears slowly lick into shape. nor is anything more unusual than to see a she-bear giving birth to cubs. consequently the males lie in hiding for periods of forty days, and the females four months. if they have not got caves, they build rainproof dens by heaping up branches and brushwood, with a carpet of soft foliage on the floor. for the first fortnight they sleep so soundly that they cannot be aroused even by wounds; at this period they get fat with sloth to a remarkable degree (the bear's grease is useful for medicines and a prophylactic against baldness). as a result of these days of sleep they shrink in bulk and they live by sucking their fore paws. they cherish their freezing offspring by pressing them to their breast, lying on them just like birds hatching eggs. strange to say, theophrastus believes that even boiled bear's flesh, if kept, goes on growing in size for that period; that no evidence of food and only the smallest amount of water is found in the belly at this stage, and that there are only a few drops of blood in the neighbourhood of the heart and none in the rest of the body. in the spring they come out, but the males are very fat, a fact the cause of which is not evident, as they have not been fattened up even by sleep, except for a fortnight as we have said. on coming out they devour a plant called wake-robin to loosen the bowels, which are otherwise constipated, and they rub their teeth on tree-stumps to get their mouths into training. their eyes have got dim, which is the chief reason why they seek for hives, so that their face may be stung by the bees to relieve that trouble with blood. a bear's weakest part is the head, which is the lion's strongest; consequently if when hard pressed by an attack they are going to fling themselves down from a rock they make the jump with their head covered with their fore paws, and in the arena are often killed by their head being broken by a buffet. the spanish provinces believe that a bear's brain contains poison, and when bears are killed in shows their heads are burnt in the presence of a witness, on the ground that to drink the poison drives a man bear-mad. bears even walk on two feet, and they crawl down trees backward. they tire out bulls with their weight by hanging by all four feet from their mouth and horns; and no other animal's stupidity is more cunning in doing harm. it is noted in the annals that on 19 september in the consulship of marcus piso and marcus messala, domitius ahenobarbus as curule aedile provided in the circus a hundred numidian bears and the same number of ethiopian huntsmen. i am surprised at the description of the bears as numidian, since it is known that the bear does not occur in africa. 