marcus varro states that an ass was bought for the senator quintus axius at 400,000 sesterces which perhaps beats the price paid for any other animal. the services of the ass kind are undoubtedly bountiful in ploughing as well, but especially in breeding mules. in mules also regard is paid to locality of origin - in greece the arcadian breed is esteemed and in italy the iteatine. the ass itself is very bad at enduring cold, and consequently is not bred in the black sea district; and it is not allowed to breed at the spring equinox like all other cattle, but at midsummer. the males make worse sires when not in work. the females breed at two and a half years old at earliest, but regularly from three; they can breed as many times as mares, and in the same months and in a similar way. but the womb cannot retain the genital fluid but discharges it, unless the animal is whipped into a gallop after coupling. it seldom bears twins. when about to bear a foal it shuns the sunlight and seeks the shadow, so as not to be seen by a human being. it breeds through all its lifetime, which is thirty years. it has a very great affection for its young, but a greater dislike for water: she-asses will go through fire to their foals, but yet if the smallest stream intervenes they are afraid of merely wetting their hooves. those kept in pastures will only drink at springs they are used to, and where they can get to drink by a dry track; and they will not go across bridges with interstices in their structure allowing the gleam of the river to be seen through them; and, surprising to say, they may be thirsty and have to be forced or coaxed to drink, if the stream is not the one they are used to. only a wide allowance of stall-room is safe for them to lie down in, for when asleep they have a variety of dreams and frequently let out with their hooves, which at once causes lameness by hitting timber that is too hard unless they have plenty of room to kick in. the profit made out of she-asses surpasses the richest spoils of war. it is known that in celtiberia their foals have made 400,000 sesterces per dam, especially when mules are bred. they say that in she-asses the hair of the ears and the eyelids is an important point, for although the rest of the dam's body is all one colour, the foal reproduces all the colours that were in those places. maecenas set the fashion of eating donkey foals at banquets, and they were much preferred to wild asses at that period; but after his time the ass lost favour as a delicacy. animals of this genus very quickly flag when their sight begins to go. 