a mare coupled with an ass after twelve months bears a mule, an animal of exceptional strength for agricultural operations. to breed mules they choose mares not less than four or more than ten years old. also breeders say that females of either genus refuse stallions of the other one unless as foals they were suckled by females of the same genus as the stallions; for this reason they stealthily remove the foals in the dark and put them to mares' or she-asses' udders respectively. but a mule is also got by a horse out of an ass, though it is unmanageable, slow and obstinate. also all the foals from old mares are sluggish. it causes miscarriage for a mare in foal by a horse to be put to an ass, but not vice versa. it has been observed that female asses are best coupled six days after they have borne a foal, and that males couple better when tired. it is noticed that a female that does not conceive before she casts what are called her milk-teeth is barren, as is one that does not begin to produce foals from the first coupling. male foals of an ass by a horse were in old days called hinnies, while the term mules was used for the foals of a mare by an ass. it has been noticed that the offspring of two different races of animals belong to a third kind and resemble neither parent; and that such hybrids are not themselves fertile: this is the case with all kinds of animals, and is the reason why mules are barren. a number of cases of reproduction by mules are recorded in our annals, but these were considered portentous. theophrastus states that mules breed commonly in cappadocia, but that the cappadocian mule is a peculiar species. a mule can be checked from kicking by rather frequent drinks of wine. it is stated in the records of a good many greeks that a foal has been got from a mare coupled with a mule, called a ginnus, which means a small mule. she-mules bred from a mare and tamed wild-asses are swift in pace and have extremely hard hooves, but a lean body and an indomitable spirit. but as a sire the foal of a wild-ass and a domestic she-ass excels all others. the wild-asses in phrygia and lycaonia are pre-eminent. africa boasts of their foals as an outstanding table delicacy; the vernacular word for them is lalisio. records at athens attest a mule's having lived 80 years; for the citizens were so delighted because after it had been put aside owing to old age it encouraged the teams by its company and assistance in their uphill work during the construction of a temple on the citadel, that they made a decree that the corn-dealers were not to keep it away from their stands. 