there is a famous story of one of the romans fighting single-handed against an elephant, on the occasion when hannibal had compelled his prisoners from our army to fight duels with one another. for he pitted one survivor against an elephant, and this man, having secured a promise of his freedom if he killed the animal, met it single-handed in the arena and much to the chagrin of the carthaginians dispatched it. hannibal realized that reports of this encounter would bring the animals into contempt, so he sent horsemen to kill the man as he was departing. experiences in our battles with pyrrhus made it clear that it is very easy to lop off an elephant's trunk. fenestella states that the first elephant fought in the circus at rome in the curule aedileship of claudius pulcher and the consulship of marcus antonius and aulus postumius, 99 bc., and also that the first fight of an elephant against bulls was twenty years later in the curule aedileship of the luculli. also in pompey's second consulship, at the dedication of the temple of venus victrix, twenty, or, as some record, seventeen, fought in the circus, their opponents being gaetulians armed with javelins, one of the animals putting up a marvellous fight — its feet being disabled by wounds it crawled against the hordes of the enemy on its knees, snatching their shields from them and throwing them into the air, and these as they fell delighted the spectators by the curves they described, as if they were being thrown by a skilled juggler and not by an infuriated wild animal. there was also a marvellous occurrence in the case of another, which was killed by a single blow, as the javelin striking it under the eye had reached the vital parts of the head. the whole band attempted to burst through the iron palisading by which they were enclosed and caused considerable trouble among the public. owing to this, when subsequently caesar in his dictatorship was going to exhibit a similar show he surrounded the arena with channels of water; these the emperor nero removed when adding special places for the knighthood. but pompey's elephants when they had lost all hope of escape tried to gain the compassion of the crowd by indescribable gestures of entreaty, deploring their fate with a sort of wailing, so much to the distress of the public that they forgot the general and his munificence carefully devised for their honour, and bursting into tears rose in a body and invoked curses on the head of pompey for which he soon afterwards paid the penalty. elephants also fought for the dictator caesar in his third consulship, twenty being matched against 500 foot soldiers, and on a second occasion an equal number carrying castles each with a garrison of 60 men, who fought a pitched battle against the same number of infantry as on the former occasion and an equal number of cavalry; and subsequently for the emperors claudius and nero elephants versus men single-handed, as the crowning exploit of the gladiators' careers. 