the most highly esteemed wool is the apulian and the kind that is called in italy wool of the greek breed and elsewhere italian wool. the third place is held by the sheep of miletus. the apulian fleeces are short in the hair, and not of great repute except for cloaks; they have a very high reputation in the districts of taranto and canossa, as have the laodicean fleeces of the same breed in asia. no white fleece is valued above that from the district of the po, and none has hitherto gone beyond the price of a pound. sheep are not shorn everywhere — in some places the practice survives of plucking off the wool. there are several sorts of colour, in fact even names are lacking for the wools which are variously designated after their places of origin: spain has the principal black wool fleeces, pollentia near the alps white, asia the red fleeces that they call erythrean, baetica the same, canossa tawny, taranto also a dark colour of its own.. all fresh fleeces have a medicinal property. istrian and liburnian fleece is nearer to hair than wool, and not suitable for garments with a soft nap; and the same applies to the fleece that salaeia in lusitania advertises by its check pattern. there is a similar wool in the district of the fishponds in the province of narbonne, and also in egypt, which is used for darning clothes worn by use and making them last again for a long period. also the coarse hair of a shaggy fleece has a very ancient popularity in carpets: homer a is evidence that they were undoubtedly in use even in very early times. different methods of dyeing these fleeces are practised by the gauls and by the parthian races. self-felted fleeces make clothing, and also if vinegar is added withstand even steel, nay more even fire, the latest method of cleaning them. in fact fleeces drawn from the coppers of the polishers serve as stuffing for cushions, i believe by a french invention: at all events at the present day it is classified under gallic names. and i could not easily say at what period this began; for people in old times had bedding of straw, in the same way as in camp now. frieze cloaks began within my father's memory and cloaks with hair on both sides within my own, as also shaggy body-belts; moreover weaving a broad-striped tunic after the manner of a frieze cloak is coming in for the first time now. black fleeces will not take dye of any colour; we will discuss the dyeing of the other sorts in their proper places under the head of marine shellfish or the nature of various plants. 