goats bear as many as four kids at once, but rather seldom; they carry their young for 5 months, like sheep. he-goats are made sterile by over-fattening. they are not very useful as sires till three years old, nor in old age, and they do not serve for more than four years. they begin when six months old and before they are weaned. both sexes breed better with the horns removed. the first coupling in the day has no result, but the following and subsequent ones are more effectual. she-goats conceive in november so as to bear kids in march when the bushes arc budding — yearlings sometimes and two-year-olds always, but they are not of much use for breeding unless three years old. they go on bearing for eight years. they are liable to miscarriage from cold. a she-goat cures its eyes when bloodshot by pricking them on a rush, he-goats on a bramble. mucianus has described a case of this animal's cleverness seen by himself — two goats coming in opposite directions met on a very narrow bridge, and as the narrow space did not permit them to turn round and the length did not allow of backing blindly on the scanty passageway with a rushing torrent flowing threateningly below, one of them lay down and so the other one passed over, treading on top of it. people admire he-goats that are as snub-nosed as possible, with long drooping ears and extremely shaggy flanks. it is a mark of good breeding in she-goats to have two dewlaps hanging down from the neck; not all have horns, but in those that have there are also indications of their years furnished by the growths of the knobs; they give more milk when without horns; according to archelaus they breathe though the ears, not the nostrils, and are never free from fever: this is perhaps the reason why they are more high-spirited than sheep and hotter in coupling. it is said that goats can see by night as well as they can in the daytime, and that consequently a diet of goat's liver restores twilight sight to persons suffering from what is called night-blindness. in cilicia and the syrtes region people wear clothes made of hair shorn from goats. they say that she-goats in the pastures when the sun is setting do not look at one another but lie down with their backs to each other, though at other times of the day they lie facing each other and take notice of one another. from the chin of all goats hangs a tuft of hair called their heard. if you grasp a she-goat by this and drag her out of the herd the others look on in amazement; this also happens as well when one of them nibbles a particular plant. their bite kills a tree; they make an olive tree barren even by licking it, and for this reason they are not offered in sacrifice to minerva. 