swine are allowed to breed from the beginning of spring to the vernal equinox, beginning at seven months old and in some places even at three months, and continuing to their eighth year. sows bear twice a year, carrying their pigs four months: litters number up to 20, but sows cannot rear so many. nigidius states that for ten days at midwinter pigs are born with the teeth already grown. sows are impregnated by one coupling, which is also repeated because they are so liable to abortion; the remedy is not to allow coupling at the first heat or before the ears are pendulous. hogs cannot serve when over three years old. sows exhausted by age couple lying down; it is nothing out of the way for them to eat their litter. a pig is suitable for sacrifice four days after birth, a lamb in a week and a calf in a month. coruncanius asserted that ruminant animals are not acceptable as victims before they grow their front teeth. it is thought that a sow that loses an eye soon dies, but that otherwise sows live to fifteen and in some cases even twenty years; but they become savage, and in any ease the breed is liable to diseases, especially quinsy and serofula. symptoms of bad health in a sow are when blood is found on the root of a bristle pulled out of its back and when it holds its head on one side in walking. if too fat they experience lack of milk; and they have a smaller number of pigs in their first litter. the breed likes wallowing in mud. the tail is curly; also it has been noticed that it is easier to kill them for sacrifice when the tail curls to the right than when to the left. they take 60 days to fatten, but fatten better if feeding up is preceded by three days' fast. the pig is the most brutish of animals, and there used to be a not unattractive idea that its soul was given it to serve as salt. it is a known fact that some pigs carried off by thieves recognized the voice of their swineherd, crowded to one side of the ship till it capsized and sank, and swam back to shore. moreover the leaders of a herd in the city learn to go to the market place and to find their way home; and wild hogs know how to obliterate their tracks by crossing marshy ground, and to relieve themselves when running away by making water. sows are spayed in the same way as also camels are, by being hung up by the fore legs after two days without food and having the matrix cut out; this makes them fatten quicker. there is also a method of treating the liver of sows as of geese, a discovery of marcus apicius — they are stuffed with dried fig, and when full killed directly after having been given a drink of mead. nor does any animal supply a larger number of materials for an eating-house: they have almost fifty flavours, whereas all other meats have one each. hence pages of sumptuary laws, and the prohibition of hog's paunches, sweetbreads, testicles, matrix and cheeks for banquets, although nevertheless no dinner of the pantomime writer publius after he had obtained his freedom is recorded that did not include paunch — he actually got from this the nickname of pig's paunch. 