hares rarely grow tame, although they cannot properly be termed wild animals - for in fact there are a good many creatures that are neither wild nor tame but of a character intermediate between each, for instance among winged things swallows and bees, in the sea dolphins. many people have also placed in this class these denizens of our homes the mice, a creature not to be ignored among portents even in regard to public affairs; they foretold the war with the marsians by gnawing the silver shields at lanuvium, and the death of general carbo by gnawing at the puttees that he wore inside his sandals. there are more varieties of mice in the district of cyrene, some with broad and others with pointed heads, and others like hedgehogs with prickly bristles. theophrastus states that on the island of chiura when they had banished the inhabitants they even gnawed iron, and that they also do this by a sort of instinct in the iron foundries in the country of the chalybes: indeed, he says, in gold mines because of this their bellies get cut away and their theft of gold is always detected, so fond are they of thieving. the public records relate that during the siege of casilinum by hannibal a mouse was sold for 200 francs, and that the man who sold it died of hunger while the buyer lived. the appearance of white mice constitutes a joyful omen. for we have our records full of instances of the auspices being interrupted by the squeaking of shrews. nigidius states that shrews themselves also hibernate as do dormice, which sumptuary legislation and marcus scaurus the head of the state during his consulship ruled out from banquets just as they did shell-fish or birds imported from other parts of the world. the shrewmouse itself also is a half-wild animal, and keeping it alive in jars was originated by the same person as started keeping wild pigs. in this connexion it has been noticed that shrew-mice do not associate unless they are natives of the same forest, and if foreigners separated by a river or mountain are introduced they die fighting one another. they feed their parents when exhausted by old age with remarkable affection. their old age comes to its end during the winter repose - for these creatures also hibernate, and renew their youth at the coming of summer. dormice hibernate similarly. 