but no creature harmful to fish enters the black sea besides seals and small dolphins. the tunny enter it by the right bank and go out of it by the left; this is believed to occur because they can see better with the right eye, being by nature dim of sight in both eyes. in the channel of the thracian bosphorus joining the propontis with the black sea, in the actual narrows of the channel separating europe and asia, there is a rock of marvellous whiteness that shines through the water from the bottom to the surface, near chalcedon on the asiatic side. the sudden sight of this always frightens them, and they make for the opposite promontory of byzantium in a headlong shoal; this is the reason why that promontory has the name of the horn. consequently all the catch is at byzantium, and there is a great shortage at chalcedon, owing to the 1000 yards of channel flowing in between. but they wait for a north wind to blow so as to go out of the black sea with the current, and are only taken a when entering the harbour of byzantium. in winter they do not wander; wherever winter catches them, there they hibernate till the equinox. they are also frequently seen from the stern of vessels proceeding under sail, accompanying them in a remarkably charming manner for periods of several hours and for a distance of some miles, not being scared even by having a harpoon repeatedly thrown at them. some people give the name of pilot-fish to the tunny that do this. many pass the summer in the propontis without entering the black sea; the same is the case with the sole, though the turbot does enter it. nor does the sepia occur there, though the cattle-fish is found. of rock-fish the sea-bream and whiting are lacking, as are some shell-fish, though oysters are plentiful; but they all winter in the aegean. of those entering the black sea the only kind that never returns is the bichia or sardine — it will be convenient to use the greek names in most cases, as different districts have called the same species by a great variety of names — but these alone enter the danube and float down from it by its underground channels into the adriatic, and consequently there also they are regularly seen going down stream and never coming up from the sea. the season for catching tunny is from the rise of the pleiades to the setting of arcturus; during the rest of the winter time they lurk at the bottom of the water unless tempted out by a mild spell or at full moon. they get fat even to the point of bursting. the tunny's longest life is two years. 