one variety of the polypus kind is the stink-polyp, named from the disagreeable smell of its head, which causes it to be the special prey of the lamprey. polyps go into hiding for periods of two months. they do not live more than two years; but they always die of consumption, the females more quickly and usually as a result of bearing offspring. we must also not pass over the facts as to the polyp ascertained when lucius lucullus was governor of baetica, and published by one of his staff, trebius niger; he says that they are extremely greedy for shell-fish, and that these close their shells at a touch and cut off the polyp's tentacles, so retaliating by obtaining food from their would-be robber. shell-fish do not possess sight or any other sense except consciousness of food and danger. consequently the polyps lie in wait for the shell-fish to open, and placing a stone between the shells, not on the fish's body so that it may not be ejected by its throbbing, thus go to work at their ease, and drag out the flesh, while the shell-fish try to shut up, but in vain, as they are wedged open: so clever are even the most stupid of animals. moreover niger asserts that no animal is more savage in causing the death of a man in the water; for it struggles with him by coiling round him and swallows him with its sucker-cups and drags him asunder by its multiple suction, when it attacks men that have been shipwrecked or are diving. but should it be turned over, its strength gets feebler; for when polyps are lying on their backs they stretch themselves out. the rest of the facts reported by the same authority may possibly be thought to approximate to the miraculous. in the fishponds at carteia a polyp was in the habit of getting into their uncovered tanks from the open sea and there foraging for salted fish — even the smell of which attracts all sea creatures in a surprising way, owing to which even fish-traps are smeared with them — and so it brought on itself the wrath of the keepers, which owing to the persistence of the theft was beyond all bounds. fences were erected in its way, but it used to scale these by making use of a tree, and it was only possible to catch it by means of the keen scent of hounds. these surrounded it when it was going back at night, and aroused the guards, who were astounded by its strangeness: in the first place its size was unheard of and so was its colour as well, and it was smeared with brine and had a terrible smell; who would have expected to find a polyp there, or who would recognize it in such circumstances? they felt they were pitted against something uncanny, for by its awful breath it also tormented the dogs, which it now scourged with the ends of its tentacles and now struck with its longer arms, which it used as clubs; and with difficulty they succeeded in despatching it with a number of three-pronged harpoons. they showed its head to lucullus — it was as big as a cask and held 90 gallons, — and (to use the words of trebius himself) 'its beards which one could hardly clasp round with both one's arms, knotted like clubs, 30 ft. long, with suckers or cups like basins holding three gallons, and teeth corresponding to its size. its remains, kept as a curiosity, were found to weigh 700 lbs. trebius also states that cuttlefish of both species of the same size have been driven ashore on that coast. in our own seas one kind is taken that measures 7 1/2 ft. in length and the other kind 3 ft. these fish also do not live more than two years. 