i have seen lollia paulina, who became the consort of gaius, not at some considerable or solemn ceremonial celebration but actually at an ordinary betrothal banquet, covered with emeralds and pearls interlaced alternately and shining all over her head, hair, ears, neck and fingers, the sum total amounting to the value of 40,000,000 sesterces, she herself being ready at a moment's notice to give documentary proof of her title to them; nor had they been presents from an extravagant emperor, but ancestral possessions, acquired in fact with the spoil of the provinces. this is the final outcome of plunder, it was for this that marcus lollius disgraced himself by taking gifts from kings in the whole of the east, and was cut out of his list of friends by gaius caesar son of augustus and drank poison - that his granddaughter should be on show in the lamplight covered with 40,000,000 sesterces! now let some one reckon up on one side of the account how much curius or fabricius carried in their triumphs, and picture to himself the spoils they displayed, and on the other side lollia, a single little lady reclining at the emperor's side - and would he not think it better that they should have been dragged from their chariots than have won their victories with this result? nor are these the topmost instances of luxury. there have been two pearls that were the largest in the whole of history; both were owned by cleopatra, the last of the queens of egypt - they had come down to her through the hands of the kings of the east. when antony was gorging daily at recherche banquets, she with a pride at once lofty and insolent, queenly wanton as she was, poured contempt on all his pomp and splendour, and when he asked what additional magnificence could be contrived, replied that she would spend 10,000,000 sesterces on a single banquet. antony was eager to learn how it could be done, although he thought it was impossible. consequently bets were made, and on the next day, when the matter was to be decided, she set before antony a banquet that was indeed splendid, so that the day might not be wasted, but of the kind served every day - antony laughing and expostulating at its niggardliness. but she vowed it was a mere additional douceur, and that the banquet would round off the account and her own dinner alone would cost 10,000,000 sesterces, and she ordered the second course to be served. in accordance with previous instructions the servants placed in front of her only a single vessel containing vinegar, the strong rough quality of which can melt pearls. she was at the moment wearing in her ears that remarkable and truly unique work of nature. antony was full of curiosity to see what in the world she was going to do. she took one earring off and dropped the pearl in the vinegar, and when it was melted swallowed it. lucius plancus, who was umpiring the wager, placed his hand on the other pearl when she was preparing to destroy it also in a similar way, and declared that antony had lost the battle - an ominous remark that came true. with this goes the story that, when that queen who had won on this important issue was captured, the second of this pair of pearls was cut in two pieces, so that half a helping of the jewel might be in each of the ears of venus in the pantheon at rome. 