whales have their mouths in their foreheads, and consequently when swimming on the surface of the water they blow clouds of spray into the air. it is universally admitted that a very few other creatures in the sea also breathe, those whose internal organs include a lung, since it is thought that no animal is able to breathe without one. those who hold this opinion believe that the fishes possessing gills do not alternately expire and inspire air, and that many other classes even lacking gills do not — an opinion which i notice that aristotle a held and supported by many learned researches. nor do i pretend that i do not myself immediately accept this view of theirs since it is possible that animals may also possess other respiratory organs in place of lungs, if nature so wills, just as also many possess another fluid instead of blood. at all events who can be surprised that this life-giving breath penetrates into water if he observes that it is also given back again from the water, and that it also penetrates into the earth, that much denser element, as is proved by animals that live always in underground burrows, like moles. undoubtedly to my mind there are additional facts that make me believe that in fact all creatures in the water breathe, owing to the condition of their own nature — in the first place a sort of panting that has often been noticed in fishes during the summer heat, and another form of gasping, so to speak, in calm weather, and also the admission in regard to fishes sleeping made even by those persons who are of the opposite opinion — for how can sleep occur without breathing? — and moreover the bubbles caused on the surface of the water by air rising from below, and the effect of the moon in causing the bodies even of shellfish to increase in size. above all there is the fact that it will not be doubted that fish have the sense of hearing and smell, both of which are derived from the substance of air: scent indeed could not possibly be interpreted as anything else than an infection of the air. consequently it is open to every person to form whatever opinion about these matters he pleases. whales do not possess gills, nor do dolphins. these two genera breathe with a tube that passes to the lung, in the case of whales from the forehead and in the case of dolphins from the back. also sea-calves, called seals, breathe and sleep on land, as also do tortoises, about whom more shortly. 