fishes' eggs in the sea grow in size, some with extreme rapidity, for instance those of the murena, some a little more slowly. flat fish not possessing a tail, and sting-ray and tortoises, cover the female in mating, polyps couple by attaching a single feeler to the female's nostrils, the two varieties of cuttle-fish with their tongues, linking their arms together and swimming in opposite directions; they also spawn through the mouth. but polyps couple with their head turned towards the ground, all the other soft fishes with their backs - for instance sea-dogs, and also langoustes and prawns; crabs with their mouth. frogs cover the female, the male grasping her shoulder-blades with his forefeet and her buttocks with his hind feet. they spawn very small lumps of dark flesh that are called tadpoles, possessing only eyes and a tail; but soon feet are formed by the tail dividing into two hind legs. and strange to say, after six months of life they melt invisibly back into mud, and again in the waters of springtime are reborn what they were before, equally owing to some hidden principle of nature, as it occurs every year. also mussels and scallops are produced by spontaneous generation in sandy waters; fish with harder shells, like the two varieties of purple-fish, are generated by a sticky juice like saliva, as gnats are by moisture turning sour; the anchovy by sea-foam growing warm when rain gets into it; but fish protected by a flinty covering, like oysters, are generated by rotting mud, or by the foam round ships that stay moored for some time, and especially round stakes fixed in the ground, and timber. it has recently been discovered in oyster-beds that a fertilizing moisture flows out of these fish like milk. eels rub against rocks and the scrapings come to life; this is their only way of breeding. different kinds of fish do not mate together, except the skate and the ray, the cross between which is like a ray in front, and bears in greece a name derived from the names of both parents. 