nor is it proper to omit the stories about the anthias fish that i notice to have won general acceptance. we have mentioned the swallow islands, situated off a promontory of mt. taurus in the rocky sea of asia; this fish is frequent there, and is quickly caught, in one variety. a fisherman sails out a certain distance in a small boat, wearing clothes that match the boat in colour, and at the same time for several days running, and throws out bait; but if any alteration whatever be made, the prey suspects a trick and avoids the thing that has frightened it. when this has been done a number of times, at last one anthias is tempted by familiarity to try to get the bait. this one is marked down with careful attention as a foundation for hope and as a decoy for a catch; and it is not difficult to mark it, as for several days only this one ventures to come close. at last it finds others as well, and gradually enlarging its company finally brings shoals too big to count, as by this time all the oldest fish have got used to recognizing the fisherman and snatching the bait out of his hand. then he throws a hook fixed in the bait a little beyond his fingers, and catches or rather rushes them one by one, snatching them with a short jerk away from the shadow of the boat so that the others may not notice it, while another man in the boat receives the catch in some rags so that no flapping or noise may drive away the others. it pays to know the decoy fish for this purpose, so that he may not be caught, as thenceforward the shoal will swim away. there is a story that a disaffected partner in a fishery lay in wait for the leader fish, which was very well known, and caught it, with malicious intent; mucianus adds that it was recognized in the market by the partner who was being victimized, and that proceedings for damage were instituted and a verdict given for the prosecution with damages as assessed. moreover it is said that when these fishes see one of their number hooked they cut the line with the saw - like prickles that they have on their back, while the one held by the line draws it taut so as to enable it to be severed. with the satgus kind however the captive itself rubs the line against the rocks. 