in the region of nismes in the province of narbonne there is a marsh named latera where dolphins catch fish in partnership with a human fisherman. at a regular season a countless shoal of mullet rushes out of the narrow mouth of the marsh into the sea, after watching for the turn of the tide, which makes it impossible for nets to be spread across the channel - indeed the nets would be equally incapable of standing the mass of the weight even if the craft of the fish did not watch for the opportunity. for a similar reason they make straight out into the deep water produced by the neighbouring eddies, and hasten to escape from the only place suitable for setting nets. when this is observed by the fishermen - and a crowd collects at the place, as they know the time, and even more because of their keenness for this sport - and when the entire population from the shore shouts as loud as it can, calling for 'snub-nose' for the denouement of the show, the dolphins quickly hear their wishes if a northerly breeze carries the shout out to sea, though if the wind is in the south, against the sound, it carries it more slowly; but then too they suddenly hasten to the spot, in order to give their aid. their line of battle comes into view, and at once deploys in the place where they are to join battle; they bar the passage on the side of the sea and drive the scared mullet into the shallows. then the fishermen put their nets round them and lift them out of the water with forks. none the less the pace of some mullets leaps over the obstacles; but these are caught by the dolphins, which are satisfied for the time being with merely having killed them, postponing a meal till victory is won. the action is hotly contested, and the dolphins pressing on with the greatest bravery are delighted to be caught in the nets, and for fear that this itself may hasten the enemy's flight, they glide out between the boats and the nets or the swimming fishermen so gradually as not to open ways of escape; none of them try to get away by leaping out of the water, which otherwise they are very fond of doing, unless the nets are put below them. one that gets out thereupon carries on the battle in front of the rampart. when in this way the catch has been completed they tear in pieces the fish that they have killed. but as they are aware that they have had too strenuous a task for only a single day's pay they wait there till the following day, and are given a feed of bread mash dipped in wine, in addition to the fish. 