but among mountain marvels ¡X etna always glows at night, and supplies its fires with fuel sufficient for a vast period, though in winter cloaked with snow and covering its output of ashes with hoar frost. nor does nature's wrath employ mount etna only to threaten the lands with conflagration. mount chimaera in the country of phaselis is on fire, and indeed burns with a flame that does not die by day or night; ctesias of cnidos states that water increases its fire but earth or dung puts it out. also the mountains of hephaestus in lycia flare up when touched with a flaming torch, and so violently that even the stones of the rivers and the sands actually under water glow; and rain only serves to feed this fire. they say that if somebody lights a stick at it and draws a furrow with the stick, streams of fire follow it. at cophantium in bactria a coil of flame blazes in the night, and the same in media and in sittacene the frontier of persia: indeed at the white tower at susa it does so from fifteen smoke-holes, from the largest in the daytime also. the babylonian plain sends a blaze out of a sort of pool an acre in extent; also near mount hesperus in ethiopia the plains shine at night like stars. likewise in the territory of megalopolis. for if that agreeable bowl of nymphaeus, which does not scorch the foliage of the thick wood above it and though near a cold stream is always glowing hot, ceases to flow, it portends horrors to its neighbours in the town of apollonia, as theopompus has recorded. it is augmented by rain, and sends forth asphalt to mingle with that unappetizing stream, which even without this is more liquid than ordinary asphalt. but who would be surprised by these things? during the allies' war holy island and lipari among the aeolian islands near italy burnt in mid sea for several days, as did the sea itself, till a deputation from the senate performed a propitiatory ceremony. nevertheless the largest volcanic blaze is that of the ridge in ethiopia called the gods' carriage, which discharges flames that glow with truly solar heat. 