a third, very little valued, kind of honey is wild honey, called heath-honey. it is collected after the first autumn rains, when only the heath is in flower in the woods, and consequently it resembles sandy honey. it is produced mostly by the rise of arcturus after september 12. some people advance the summer honey-making to the rise of arcturus, since that leaves fourteen days to the autumnal equinox, and in the forty-eight days from the equinox to the setting of the pleiades heath is most plentiful. the athenian name for it is tetralice, and the euboean sisyrus, and they believe it to be very acceptable to bees, perhaps because at that season there is no other supply for them. consequently this honey-gathering is roughly in the period between the end of vintage and the setting of the pleiades on november 13. reason advises leaving two-thirds of the honey then procured for the bees, and always the parts of the combs that contain bee-bread. in the sixty days from midwinter to the rising of arcturus they live on sleep, without any food; in the warmer period from the rising of arcturus to the spring equinox they now keep awake, but still keep inside the hive and have recourse to the food kept for this time. but in italy they do the same after the rising of the pleiades, sleeping till then. some people in taking out the honey weigh the hives, so separating the amount to be left behind. there is indeed a bond of equity even in the case of bees, and it is said that if the partnership is defrauded the hives perish. consequently it is one of the first rules that people must wash themselves clean before they take the honey; also bees hate scurf, and women's menstruation. when honey is being removed it is very useful for the bees to be driven away by smoke, so that they may not get angry or greedily devour it themselves. also denser smoke is employed to arouse their sloth to their tasks, for if they have not gone on incubating, the combs they make are discoloured. on the other hand excessive smoke kills them, as honey very quickly undergoes deterioration if turned sour by the least touch of moisture; and for this reason among the kinds of honey there is a special sort called by the greek word meaning 'smokeless.' 