cato mentioned three kinds of myrtle, the black, the white and the 'union myrtle' - perhaps named after marriage unions - descended from the stock of the cluacina myrtle mentioned above; but at the present day there is also another classification, which distinguishes the cultivated and the wild myrtle, and in each of these also a wide-leaved variety, while the variety called oxymyrsine occurs only in the wild kind. varieties of the cultivated myrtle produced by landscape-gardeners are the taranto myrtle with a very small leaf, the roman myrtle with a broad leaf, and the 'six-row' myrtle with very thick foliage, the leaves growing in rows of six. the last is not much grown, being bushy and not lofty. i believe that the union-myrtle is now called the roman myrtle. the myrtle with the most powerful scent belongs to egypt. cato taught how to make wine from the black myrtle, by drying it in the shade until no moisture remained and then putting it in must; he says that if the berries are not thoroughly dried, oil is produced. afterwards a way was also discovered of making a white wine from the pale variety, by steeping a quart of pounded myrtle in a pint and a half of wine and then pressing out the liquor. the leaves are also dried by themselves till they go to a powder, which is used as a cure for sores on the human body, the powder being slightly corrosive and serving to cool off the perspiration. moreover, the oil also curiously enough contains a certain flavour of wine, and at the same time has a greasy fluidity which makes it specially efficacious for improving wines if it is poured over the wine-strainers before they are used; this is because the oil retains the lees and only allows the pure liquor to pass through, and unites with the wine after it has been strained, greatly improving it. sprigs of myrtle also merely by being carried by a traveller are beneficial when making a long journey on foot. moreover, rings made of myrtle twigs which have never been touched by iron are a cure for swellings in the groin. 