and so much for the various classes and kinds of fruits. their structures call for closer examination. some fruits are characterized by their pods, which are themselves sweet and which enclose a seed that is bitter, since whereas in fairly many plants the seeds are agreeable, seeds contained in a pod are not approved of. others are characterized by berries which have a hard kernel inside and flesh outside, for instance olives and cherries. some have the berries inside and a hard shell outside, as is the ease with the fruit we spoke of that grows in egypt. fruits of the apple kind have the same structure as the berries: some have flesh inside and a hard ease outside, as in the case of nuts; while others have flesh outside and a hard stone inside, as is the ease with peaches and plums, which thus have the refuse part wrapped round with the fruit, whereas in other eases the fruit is shielded by the refuse part. nuts are enclosed in a shell, chestnuts in a skin; with chestnuts the skin is removed, but in the ease of medlars it is eaten. acorns are covered with a hard shell, grapes with a skin, pomegranates with an outer skin and an inner skin. mulberries consist of flesh and juice, cherries of skin and juice. some fruits separate from their woody part at once, for instance nuts and dates, but some adhere to it, for instance olives and laurel-berries; and one group has both properties, for example peaches, inasmuch as in the hard peach or nectarine the flesh adheres and cannot be torn away from the stone, whereas in all the other sorts it is easily separated. some fruits have no stone inside and no shell outside, for instance the date class. of some kinds the hard part itself is used and serves as fruit, for instance the cuci which we spoke of as growing in egypt. some fruits have a double refuse-covering, as in the case of chestnuts and almonds and walnuts. some have a threefold structure - there is flesh and then shell and then again a seed inside the shell - for instance peaches. some fruits grow in clusters, for instance grapes and sorbs, the latter clinging all round the branches and weighing them down, like grapes; but others hang separately, as in the case of the peach. some fruits are contained in a matrix, for instance pomegranates; some hang down from a stalk, for instance pears, others hang in bunches, for instance grapes and dates, and others hang from a stalk and form hunches as well, for instance ivy-berries and elder-berries. others are attached to a branch, like the berry on the laurel, while certain kinds hang in both ways, for instance olives, for they have both short stalks and long ones. some consist of capsules, for instance the pomegranate, the medlar and the lotus in egypt and on the euphrates. then again fruits have a variety of attractions to recommend them. dates please us by their flesh, but the dates of the thebaid by their hard skin; grapes and nut-dates by their juice, pears and apples by their firm flesh, mulberries by their substance, nuts by their solid interior, certain fruits in egypt by their pips, carian figs by their skin this is removed from green figs as refuse, but in dried figs it is very agreeable. in the case of the papyrus, the fennel-giant and the white thorn the stalk itself is the fruit, as are the stalks of the fig-tree, and in the shrub class the caper with its stalk; but in the carob the only part that is eaten is the wood - while its seed has a property that must not be omitted: it cannot be called either flesh or wood or cartilage, and it would not be given any other name. 