some trees are of simple shape, having one stem rising from the root and a number of branches, as the olive, fig and vine; some belong to the bushy class, as the christ's thorn and the myrtle, and also the hazel - in fact this bears better and more abundant nuts when it spreads out into many branches. some trees have no branches at all, for instance the box of the cultivated variety and the foreign lotus. some trees are forked, and even branch out into five parts, some divide the trunk but have no branches, as is the case with the elder, and some are undivided and have branches, like the pitch-pines. some have their branches in a regular order, for instance the pitch-pine, the fir, with others their arrangement is irregular, as with the oak, apple and pear. also in the case of the fir the branching is nearly vertical and the boughs project upward towards the sky, and do not slope down sideways. it is a remarkable thing that this tree dies if the tops of the branches are lopped, but survives if they are cut off entirely from the trunk; also should the trunk be cut off below where the branches were, what remains lives, whereas if only the top be removed the whole tree dies. some trees branch out from the root up, like the elm, others throw out boughs only at the top, like the pine and the greek bean-tree, which at rome they call the lotus because of the sweetness of its fruit, which although growing wild almost resembles cherries. the exuberance of its branches makes it specially in request for houses, as they grow on a short main stem and spread out with a very wide expanse of shade, often leaping across to the neighbouring mansions. no shady foliage is more short-lived, and the branches do not take away the sun, their leaves falling in winter. no trees have bark that is more agreeable or attractive to look at, and none have branches that are longer and stouter or more numerous, so that they might be described as being themselves so many trees. their bark serves for staining hides and their root for dyeing wool. apple trees have branches of a peculiar kind, resembling the muzzles of wild animals, several smaller boughs being attached to one very large one. 