after observing the position of sunrise on any given day, let people stand at midday so as to have the point of sunrise at their left shoulder: then they will have the south directly in front of them and the north directly behind them; a path running through a field in this way will be called a cardinal line. it is better then to turn round, so as to be able to see your own shadow, which will otherwise be behind you. so, having interchanged your flanks, so as to have the sunrise of that day at your right shoulder and the sunset at your left, it will be midday when your shadow directly in front of you becomes smallest. through the middle of the length of this shadow you will have to draw a furrow with a hoe or make a line with ashes let us say 20 ft. long, and at the centre of this line, that is 10 ft. from each end, to draw a small circle, which may be called the umbilicus or navel. the part of the line towards the head of the shadow will be in the direction of the north wind. you who prune trees, do not let the cut ends of them face in that direction, nor should trees carrying vines or vines themselves do so except in the province of africa, in the cyrenaica and in egypt; when the wind is in that quarter, do not plough or perform any of the other operations we shall mention. the part of the line towards the feet of the shadow, facing south, will indicate the south wind, the greek name of which is as we said notus: when the wind comes from that quarter, husbandman, do not deal with timber or the vine. for italy this is a damp wind or else extremely hot, - indeed for africa it brings fiery heat together with fine weather. in italy bearing branches should face in this direction, but not the pruned branches of trees or vines; and this wind in the four days of the pleiades is to be dreaded for the olive, and avoided for their slips by the grafter or for their buds by those engaged in budding. it may be suitable to give some warnings as to the times of day in this region. woodman, do not prune foliage at midday. shepherd, when you perceive noon to be approaching as the shadow contracts, drive your flocks out of the sun into a shady place. when you are pasturing your flocks in summer, let them face west in the forenoon and east in the afternoon; otherwise it is harmful, as it is in winter and spring to lead them out into pasture wet with dew [and it has been said above that you must not let them feed facing north], as they go lame, and get blear-eyed from the wind, and die of looseness of the bowels. you must make the ewes face this wind when they are being covered, if you want them to have ewe lambs. 