and after these it is hither spain that has a linen of special lustre, due to the outstanding quality of a stream that washes the city of tarragon, in the waters of which it is dressed; also its fineness is marvellous, tarragon being the place where cambrics were first invented. from the same province of spain zoela flax has recently been imported into italy, a flax specially useful for hunting-nets; zoela is a city of gallaecia near the atlantic coast. the flax of cumae in campania also has a reputation of its own for nets for fishing and fowling, and it is also used as a material for making hunting-nets: in fact we use flax to lay no less insidious snares for the whole of the animal kingdom than for ourselves! but the cumae nets will cut the bristles of a boar and even turn the edge of a steel knife; and we have seen before now netting of such fine texture that it could be passed through a man's ring, with running tackle and all, a single person carrying an amount of net sufficient to encircle a wood! nor is this the most remarkable thing about it, but the fact that each string of these nettings consists of 150 threads, as recently made for fulvius lupus who died in the office of governor of egypt. this may surprise people who do not know that in a breastplate that belonged to a former king of egypt named amasis, preserved in the temple of minerva at lindus on the island of rhodes, each thread consisted of 365 separate threads, a fact which mucianus, who held the consulship three times quite lately, stated that he had proved to be true by investigation, adding that only small remnants of the breastplate now survive owing to the damage done by persons examining this quality. italy also values the pelignian flax as well, but only in its employment by fullers - no flax is more brilliantly white or more closely resembles wool; and similarly the flax grown at cahors has a special reputation for mattresses: this use of it is an invention of the provinces of gaul, as likewise is flock. as for italy, the custom even now survives in the word used for bedding. egyptian flax is not at all strong, but it sells at a very good price. there are four kinds in that country, tanitic, pelusiac, butic and tentyritic, named from the districts where they grow. the upper part of egypt, lying in the direction of arabia, grows a bush which some people call cotton, but more often it is called by a greek work meaning 'wood': hence the name xylina given to linens made of it. it is a small shrub, and from it hangs a fruit resembling a bearded nut, with an inner silky fibre from the down of which thread is spun. no kinds of thread are more brilliantly white or make a smoother fabric than this. garments made of it are very popular with the priests of egypt. a fourth kind is called othoninum; it is made from a sort of reed growing in marshes, but only from its tuft. asia makes a thread out of broom, of which specially durable fishing-nets are made, the plant being soaked in water for ten days; the ethiopians and indians make thread from apples, and the arabians from gourds that grow on trees, as we said. 