this is rendered more remarkable by springs of fresh water bubbling out as if from pipes on the seashore. in fact the nature of water also is not deficient in marvels. patches of fresh water float on the surface of the sea, being doubtless lighter. consequently also seawater being of a heavier nature gives more support to objects floating upon it. but some fresh waters too float on the surface of others; cases are the river carried on the surface of lake fucinus, the adde on larius (the lake of como), the ticinus on verbanus, the mincio on benacus (garda), the ollius on sebinnus (lago d'iseo), the rhone on lemannus (the last north of the alps, but all the rest in italy), after a passing visit that covers many miles carrying out their own waters only and no larger quantity than they introduced. this has also been stated in the case of the river orontes in syria and many others. but some rivers so hate the sea that they actually flow underneath the bottom of it, for instance the spring arethusa at syracuse, in which things emerge that have been thrown into the alpheus which flows through olympia and reaches the coast in the peloponnese. instances of rivers that flow under ground and come to the surface again are the lycus in asia, the erasinus in the argolid and the tigris in mesopotamia; and objects thrown into the spring of aesculapius at athens are given back again in phaleron harbour. also a river that goes underground in the plain of atinas comes out 20 miles further on, as also does the timavus in the district of aquileia. in lake asphaltis in judea, which produces bitumen, nothing can sink, and also in the aretissa in greater armenia; the latter indeed is a nitrous lake that supports fish. a lake near the town of manduria in the salentine district is full to the brim, and is not reduced when water is drawn out of it nor increased when water is poured into it. in the river of the cicones and in the veline lake of picenum, wood thrown into the water gets covered with a film of stone, and in the river surius in colchis this goes so far that the stone in most cases is covered with bark still lasting. similarly in the silerus beyond sorrentum not only twigs but also leaves immersed in the river become petrified, though apart from this its water is healthy to drink. rock forms in the outlet of the marsh at reate, and olive trees and green bushes grow in the red sea. 