asphodel is one of the most famous plants, so that some have styled it the plant of the heroes; hesiod said that it also grows in woods, dionysius that it may be male or female. it is agreed that its bulbs boiled down with barley water are very suitable for wasting bodies and consumptives, and that kneaded with meal they make a very wholesome bread. nicander too prescribed for the poison of snakes and scorpions either the stalk which i have called anthericum, or the seed, or the bulbs, the dose being three drachmae taken in wine, and he would have them spread under the sleeping place, should there be any fear of venomous creatures. it is also prescribed for poisoning by sea creatures and by land scolopendras. it is strange how in campania the snails seek its stalk and by sucking shrivel it up. the leaves too in wine are applied to the wounds of venomous creatures. the bulbs are pounded and applied with pearl barley to the sinews and joints. it is a good plan to chop them up and to rub in with them in vinegar; also to put them in water on putrescent sores, and on inflammations too of the breasts and testicles. boiled down in lees of wine and dabbed on from below with a piece of lint, they cure fluxes of the eyes. in nearly every disease the bulbs are usually boiled before use, but for foul sores on the shins, and for cracks in any part of the body they are dried and reduced to powder. autumn is the time they are gathered, when their power is at its best. the juice also extracted from crushed or boiled bulbs is, mixed with honey, good for an aching body; and the same, with dried iris and a little salt, helps those who are nicely particular about the odour of their persons. the leaves, boiled down in wine, cure both the complaints mentioned above and also scrofulous swellings, superficial abscesses and sores on the face. the ashes of the root are a remedy for fox-mange and for cracks on the feet or seat, and the juice of the root boiled in oil for chilblains and bums. this is poured into the ears for deafness, and for toothache into the ear opposite to the pain. a moderate dose, one drachma, of the root, taken in wine, is diuretic and an emmenagogue, besides being good for pain in the side, ruptures, convulsions and coughs. chewing the root acts as an emetic; the seed if taken internally disturbs the bowels. chrysermus treated parotid abscesses also by a decoction of the root in wine, and scrofulous swellings by the decoction added to cachry in wine. some say that if, after applying the root, a part of it be hung in the smoke and not taken down before the fourth day, as the root dries up the scrofulous swelling subsides. diocles used the root for gouty conditions in either way, boiled or raw, and for chilblains a decoction in oil. he prescribed it in wine for violent biliousness and for dropsy. it has also been held that it is aphrodisiac if, with wine and honey, it is used as an ointment or taken as a medicine. xenocrates also says that a decoction of the root in vinegar removes lichen, itch-scab and leprous sores, further that dried and mixed with henbane and melted pitch it does the same for unpleasant odour from armpits and thighs, and that the hair grows again more curly if the scalp be first shaved and then rubbed with this root; simos says that a draught of the decoction in wine removes stone of the kidneys. hippocrates holds that for attacks of the spleen it should be given in the form of seed. when beasts of burden too have sores or itch-scab, an application of the root or of a decoction of it restores the hair that has been lost. the root keeps away mice, which also die if their holes be closed up with it. 