hitherto i have dealt with things foreign, but will now turn to the roman world speaking first of remedies common to all animals and excellent in quality, such as milk and its uses. mothers milk is for everybody the most beneficial. [it is very bad for women to conceive while nursing; their nurselings are called colostrati, the milk being thick like cheese. but colostra is the first milk given after delivery, and is thick and spongy.] but any woman's milk is more nourishing than any of hem kind the next being that of the goat; this perhaps is the origin of the story that jupiter was nursed in this way. the sweetest milk after woman's is that of the camel, the most efficacious that of the ass. a big species or a big individual yields its milk more readily. goat's milk is the most suited to the stomach, as the animal browses rather than grazes. cow's milk is more medicinal, sheep's sweeter and more nourishing, although less useful for the stomach because of its greater richness. all spring milk, however, is more watery than that of summer, as is that from new pastures. the highest grade, however, is that of which a drop stays on the nail without falling off. milk is less harmful when boiled, especially with sea pebbles. cow's milk is the most relaxing, and any milk causes less flatulence when boiled. milk is used for all internal ulcers, especially those of the kidneys, bladder, intestines, throat, and lungs, externally for irritation of the skin, and for outbursts of phlegm, but it must be drunk after fasting. and i have mentioned in my account of herbs, how in arcadia cow's milk is drunk by consumptives, and by those in a decline or poor state of health. cases too are quoted of patients who by drinking ass's milk have been freed from gout in feet or hands. to the various kinds of milk physicians have added another, named schiston, that is, divided. it is made in this way: milk, by preference goats milk, is boiled in new earthenware and stirred with fresh branches of a fig-tree, after adding as many cyathi of honey wine as there are heminae of milk. when it boils, to prevent its boiling over a silver cyathus of cold water is lowered into it so that none is spilled. then taken off the fire it divides as it cools, and the whey separates from the milk. some also boil down to one-third the whey itself, which is now very vinous indeed, and cool it in the open air. but the most efficacious way to drink it is a hemina at a time at intervals, five heminae in all on fixed days; it is better to take a drive afterwards. it is given for epilepsy, melancholia, paralysis, leprous sores, leprosy, and diseases of the joints. milk is also injected for smarting caused by purges, or, for the swatting of dysentery, milk boiled down with sea pebbles or with barley gruel. for smarting intestines also cow's milk or sheep's is the more effective. fresh milk too is injected for dysentery, and raw milk for colitis, uterus trouble, snake bite, swallowing pine-caterpillars, buprestis, the poison of spanish fly or salamander, and cow's milk is specific when there has been taken in drink colchicum, hemlock, doryenium, or sea hare, as ass's milk is for gypsum, white lead, sulphur, quicksilver, and constipation in fever. it also makes a very useful gargle for ulcerated throats, is drank by convalescents from weakening illness, said to be 'in a decline,' and also for fever which is without headache. to give to children before food a hemina of ass's milk, or failing that of goat's milk, and if the rectum smarted at stool, the ancients held to be one of their secrets. better for orthopnoea than other remedies is whey of cow's milk with the addition of cress. the eyes also are bathed for ophthalmia with a hemina of milk to which have been added four drachmae of pounded sesame. splenic diseases are cured by drinking goat's milk for three days without any other food, but the goats must fast for two days and then browse on ivy the third day. drinking milk is generally bad for headache, complaints of the liver, spleen and sinews, for fevers, for giddiness except as a purge, and for a heavy cold, cough, and ophthalmia. sheep's milk is very beneficial for tenesmus, dysentery, and consumption; there have been some who said that this milk is also the most wholesome for women. 