lucius piso in the first book of his annals tells us that king tullus hostilius used the same sacrificial ritual as numa, which he found in numa's books, in an attempt to draw jupiter down from the sky, and was struck by lightning because he made certain mistakes in the ceremony; many indeed assure us that by words the destinies and omens of mighty events are changed. during the digging of foundations for a shrine on the tarpeian hill there was discovered a human head. for an interpretation envoys were sent to olenus of cales, the most distinguished seer of etruria. perceiving that the sign portended glory and success, olenus tried by questioning to divert the blessing to his own people. he first traced with his staff the outline of a temple on the ground in front of him, and then asked: 'is this then, romans, what you say? "here will be the temple of jupiter, all-good and almighty; here we found the head?"' the annals most firmly insists that the destiny of rome would have passed to etruria, had not the roman envoys, forewarned by the seer's son, replied: 'not exactly here, but it was in rome that we say the head was found.' it is said that the same thing happened again when a clay four-horse chariot, designed for the roof of the same shrine, grew larger in the furnace, and once more in a similar way was the happy augury retained. let these instances suffice to show that the power of omens is really in our own control, and that their influence is conditional upon the way we receive each. at any rate, in the teaching of the augurs it is a fundamental principle that neither evil omens nor any auspices affect those who at the outset of any undertaking declare that they take no notice of them; no greater instance of the divine mercy could be found than this boon. again, in the actual laws of the twelve tables we find also these words: 'whoever shall have bewitched the crops,' and in another place: 'whoever shall have cast an evil spell.' verrius flaccus cites trustworthy authorities to show that it was the custom, at the very beginning of a siege, for the roman priests to call forth the divinity under whose protection the besieged town was, and to promise him the same or even more splendid worship among the roman people. down to the present day this ritual has remained part of the doctrine of the pontiffs, and it is certain that the reason why the tutelary deity of rome has been kept a secret is to prevent any enemy from acting in a similar way. there is indeed nobody who does not fear to be spellbound by imprecations. a similar feeling makes everybody break the shells of eggs or snails immediately after eating them, or else pierce them with the spoon that they have used. and so theocritus among the greeks, catullus and quite recently virgil among ourselves, have represented love charms in their poems. many believe that by charms pottery can be crushed, and not a few even serpents; that these themselves can break the spell, this being the only kind of intelligence they possess; and by the charms of the marsi they are gathered together even when asleep at night. on walls too are written prayers to avert fires. it is not easy to say whether our faith is more violently shaken by the foreign, unpronounceable words, or by the unexpected latin ones, which our mind forces us to consider absurd, being always on the look-out for something big, something adequate to move a god, or rather to impose its will on his divinity. homer said that by a magic formula stayed the haemorrhage from his wounded thigh; theophrastus that there is a formula to cure sciatica; cato handed down one to set dislocated limbs, marcus varro one for gout. the dictator caesar, after one serious accident to his carriage, is said always, as soon as he was seated, to have been in the habit of repeating three times a formula of prayer for a safe journey, a thing we know that most people do today. 