the phalangium is unknown to italy and of several kinds. one is like the ant, but much larger, having a red head and the rest of the body black with white spots. its wound is more painful than that of the wasp, and it lives especially near furnaces and mills. one remedy is to show to the bitten person another phalangium of the same kind; for this purpose are kept dead specimens. their dry bodies are also found, which are pounded and taken as a remedy, as are a weasel's young prepared as i have described. among classes of spiders the greeks also include a phalangion which they distinguish by the name of 'wolf.' there is also a third kind of phalangium, a hairy spider with an enormous head. when this is cut open, there are said to be found inside two little worms, which, tied in deer skin as an amulet on women before sunrise, act as a contraceptive, as caecilius has told us in his commentarii. they retain this property for a year. of all such preventives this only would it be right for me to mention, to help those women who are so prolific that they stand in need of such a respite. there is another phalangium called rhox, like a black grape, with a very small month under the abdomen, and very short legs as though not fully grown. its bite is as painful as a scorpion's sting, forming in the urine as it were spider's webs the asterion is exactly like it, except that it is marked with white streaks. its bite makes the knees weak. worse than either is the blue spider; it is covered with black hair, and causes dimness of vision and vomit like spider's web. there is an even worse phalangium, which differs from the hornet only in having no wings. the bite from one of this kind also makes the body thin. the myrmecion in its head resembles the ant, with a black body marked by white spots, and a bite as painful as a wasp. there are two kinds of the phalanginm called tetragnathius, the worse of which has two white lines crossed on the middle of its head, and its bite makes the mouth swell; but the ash-coloured kind, which is whitish in its hind part, is less vicious. least dangerous of all is the ash-coloured spider which spins its web all over our walls to catch flies. for the bites of all spiders remedial is a cock's brain with a little pepper taken in vinegar and water, five ants also taken in drink, the ash of sheep's dung applied in vinegar, or spiders themselves of any sort that have rotted in oil. 