but herein arises a much-disputed question, for the fly taken in drink is a poison, causing excruciating pain in the bladder. cossinus, a roman knight, well known for his friendship with the emperor nero, fell a victim to lichen. caesar called in a specialist physician from egypt, who decided on preliminary treatment with spanish fly taken in drink, and the patient died. but there is no doubt that, with juice of taminian grapes, sheep suet, or that of a she-goat, an external application is beneficial. in what part of the spanish fly itself the poison lies authorities disagree; some think in the feet and in the head, but others say not. the only point agreed upon is that, wherever the poison lies, their wings help. the fly itself is bred from grub found in the sponge-like substance on the stalk of the wild rose especially, but also very plentifully on the ash. the third kind breeds on the white rose, but is less efficacious. the most potent flies of all are marked with yellow lines across their wings and are plump; much less potent are those that are small, broad and hairy; the least useful however are of one colour, and thin. they are stored away in an earthen pot, not lined with pitch, but the mouth closed with a cloth. they are covered with full-blown roses and hung over boiling vinegar and salt until the steam, passing through the cloth, suffocates them. then they are stored away. their property is to cauterise the flesh and to form scabs. of the same character is the pine-caterpillar, which is found on the pitch-pine, and the buprestis, and they are prepared in a similar way. all these are very efficacious for leprous sores and lichen. they are also said to be emmenagogue and diuretic, and so hippocrates used them also for dropsy. spanish fly was the subject of a charge against cato uticensis that he had sold poison at an auction of royal property, for he had knocked some down for 60,000 sesterces. and i may remark in passing that at this sale there was sold for 30,000 sesterces ostrich suet, a far more useful fat for all purposes than goose-grease. 