but i shall commence with admitted medical aids, that is, with wools and eggs, to give first honours to things of the first importance. certain matters even out of their proper place it will be necessary to discuss, at least as incidental asides. nor would material be wanting for rhetoric if it pleased me to pay attention to anything else than to making my work trustworthy, seeing that fable even says that among the first a medicines was one from the ashes and nest of the phoenix, just as though the story were fact and not myth. it is to joke with mankind to point out remedies that return only after a thousand years. the old romans assigned to wool even supernatural powers, for they bade brides touch with it the doorposts of their new homes; and besides dress and protection from cold, unwashed wool supplies very many remedies if dipped in oil and wine or vinegar, according as the particular need is for an emollient or a pungent remedy, for an astringent or a relaxing one, being applied, and frequently moistened, for dislocations and aching sinews. for dislocations some add salt also; others apply with wool pounded rue and fat, likewise for bruises and swellings. to rub too the teeth and gums with wool and honey is said to make the breath more pleasant, and to fumigate with wool benefits phrenitis. nose bleeding is checked by inserting wool and rose oil; another way is to put it into the ears and plug them rather firmly. it is applied moreover with honey to old sores. wounds it heals if dipped in wine, or vinegar, or cold water and oil, and then squeezed out. a ram's fleece washed in cold water and soaked in oil, soothes inflammations of the uterus in women's complaints, and by fumigation reduces prolapsus. unwashed wool applied or used as a pessary extracts a dead foetus; it also stays uterine fluxes. plugged into the bites of a mad dog it is taken away after the seventh day. with cold water it cures hangnails. again, dipped into a hot mixture of soda, sulphur, oil, vinegar and liquid pitch, all as hot as possible, and applied twice a day, wool relieves lumbago. unwashed ram's wool also stays bleeding if bound round the joints of the extremities. the most highly esteemed wool is: all from the neck, and that from the districts of galatia, tarentum, attica, and miletus. unwashed wool is applied to excoriations, blows, bruises, contusions, crushed parts, galling, falls, pains in the head and elsewhere, and with vinegar and rose oil to inflammation of the stomach. the ash of wool is applied to chafings, wounds, and burns. lit is added to medicaments for the eyes, and also used for fistulas and suppurating ears. for this purpose some take shorn wool, others wool plucked out, cut off the ends, dry, card, place in a vessel of unbaked clay, steep in honey, and burn. others place under it a layer of pitch-pine chips, make several alternate layers, sprinkle with oil, and set on fire. the ash is rubbed by the hand into little pots, with water added, and then allowed to settle. the operation is repeated several times, with changes of water, until the ash becomes slightly astringent to the tongue without stinging it; then it is stored away. it has a caustic property that makes it an excellent detergent for the eyelids. 