publius cornelius rufus, who was consul with manius curius, lost his sight while asleep, when dreaming that it was happening to him. in the opposite way, jason of pherae being ill with a tumour and given up by the doctors sought death in battle, but was wounded in the chest and so obtained a cure from the enemy. in the battle against the clans of the allobroges and arverni on the river isara, on august 8, when 130,000 of the foe were killed, the consul quintus fabius maximus got rid of a quartan ague in action. in fact whatever be this gift of nature that is bestowed upon us, it is uncertain and insecure, indeed sinister and of brief duration even in the case of those to whose lot it has fallen in most bounteous measure, at all events when we regard the whole extent of time. what of the fact that, if we take into account our nightly period of slumber, everybody is alive for only a half of his life, whereas an equal portion is passed in a manner that resembles death, or, in default of slumber, torture. and we are not counting in the years of infancy that lack sensation, nor those of old age that remains alive to be tormented, nor all the kinds of dangers, all the diseases, all the fears, all the anxieties, with death so often invoked that this is the commonest of prayers. but nature has granted man no better gift than the shortness of life. the senses grow dull, the limbs are numb, sight, hearing, gait, even the teeth and alimentary organs die before we do, and yet this period is reckoned a portion of life. consequently it is virtually a miracle - and this is the solitary instance of it found - that the musician xenophilus lived to 105 without any bodily disablement. but assuredly with all the rest of men, as in the case of none of the other animals, morbid heat or else stiffness returns through the several portions of the limbs at fixed hours, and not only at certain hours but also every three or four days or nights, even all the year round. and moreover the death of the intellect in some measure is a disease. for nature has imposed certain laws even upon diseases: a four-day-period fever never begins at midwinter or in the winter months, and some people are not attacked by it when over the age of 60, while with others, particularly women, it is discarded at puberty; and old men are least susceptible to plague. for diseases attack not only entire nations but also particular classes, sometimes the slaves, sometimes the nobility, and so through other grades. in this respect it has been observed that plague always travels from southern quarters westward and almost never otherwise, and that it does not spread in winter, nor during a period exceeding three months. 