the third agreement was in the observation of the hours (this now being an addition made by theory), the date and inventor of which we have stated in book 2. this also happened later at rome: in the twelve tables only sunrise and sunset are specified; a few years later noon was also added, the consuls' apparitor announcing it when from the senate-house he saw the sun between the beaks and the greek lodging. when the sun sloped from the maenian column to the prison he announced the last hour, but this only on clear days, down to the first punic war. we have it on the authority of fabius vestalis that the first sundial was erected 11 years before the war with pyrrhus at the temple of quirinus by lucius papirius cursor when dedicating that temple, which had been vowed by his father; but fabius does not indicate the principle of the sundial's construction or the maker, nor where it was brought from or the name of the writer who is his authority for the statement. marcus varro records that the first public sundial was set up on a column along by the beaks during the first punic war after catania in sicily had been taken by the consul manius valerius messala, and that it was brought from sicily thirty years later than the traditional date of papirius's sundial, b.c. 264. the lines of this sundial did not agree with the hours, but all the same they followed it for 99 years, till quintus marcius philippus who was censor with lucius paulus placed a more carefully designed one next to it, and this gift was received as one of the most welcome of the censor's undertakings. even then however the hours were uncertain in cloudy weather, until the next lustrum, when scipio nasica the colleague of laenas instituted the first water-clock dividing the hours of the nights and the days equally, and dedicated this timepiece in a roofed building [159 bce]. for so long a period the divisions of daylight had not been marked for the roman public. we will now turn to the rest of the animals, beginning with land-animals. 