indian oxen are reported to be as tall as camels and to have horns with a span of four feet. in our part of the world the most famous are those of epirus, having been so, it is said, ever since the attention given to them by king pyrrhus. pyrrhus achieved this result by not requisitioning them for breeding before the age of four; consequently his oxen were very large, and the remains of his breeds continue even today. but now yearling heifers are called upon for breeding, though they can stand it better at two years, while bulls are made to serve at four. each bull serves ten cows in the same year. it is said that if the bulls after coupling go away towards the right hand side the offspring will be males, and if towards the left, females. conception is effected by one coupling, and if this happens to miss, the female goes to a male again twenty days after. they bear the calf in the tenth month; one produced before is of no use. some authorities say that they bear on the actual last day of the tenth month. they rarely produce twins. coupling takes place in the thirty days following the rise of the dolphin on january 4, and occasionally in the autumn also, though nations that live on milk spread it out so that there may be a supply of this nutriment at every season of the year. bulls do not couple more than twice in one day. oxen are the only animals that graze even while walking backward; indeed among the garamantes that is their only way of grazing. the longest life of a cow is 15 years and of a bull 20; they grow to full strength at 5. washing in hot water is said to fatten them, and also cutting a hole in the hide and blowing air into the flesh with a reed. even the breeds less praised for their appearance are not to be deemed inferior: the alpine cows which are the smallest in size give most milk, and do most work, although they are yoked by the head and not the neck. syrian oxen have no dewlaps, but a hump on the back. also the carian breed in a district of asia is said to be ugly in appearance, with a swelling that projects from the neck over the shoulders and with the horns displaced, but excellent in work - although when black and white in colour they are said to be no good for ploughing; the bulls have smaller and thinner horns than the cows. oxen should be broken when three years old; after that it is too late and before too early; the best way to train a young bullock is to yoke it with one already broken in. for we possess in this animal a partner in labour and in husbandry, held in such esteem with our predecessors that among our records of punishments there is a case of a man who was indicted for having killed an ox because a wanton young companion said he had never eaten bullock's tripe, and was convicted by the public court and sent into exile just as though he had murdered his farm-labourer. 